1
             At the Sea
                 E4 : S1




   Written in 2023 by James Mahu
All artwork produced by James Mahu

   James Mahu 寫於 2023 年
所有的美術作品皆由 James Mahu 所創作




                MOCI.life
           SovereignIntegral.org

             WingMakers.com
              JamesMahu.com




    Free Audiobook available at MOCI.life


 在 MOCI.life 可以取得免費的有聲書




           English Version: 1.0




                     2
CC BY-NC-ND includes the following elements:


BY       — Credit must be given to the creator


NC       — Only noncommercial uses of the work are permitted


ND        — No derivatives or adaptations of the work are permitted


Copyright: Creative Commons

Creative Commons BY-NC-ND: This license allows reusers to copy and distribute the material
in any medium or format in unadapted form only, for noncommercial purposes only, and
only so long as attribution is given to the creator.




                                  版權：知識共用


知識共用BY-NC-ND：本許可容許使用者在保證著作權歸屬作者
前提下，基於非商業目的且無篡改地以任何媒體及格式複製和分
發該作品。

CC BY-NC-ND 包括以下要素 :

BY（署名）：署名必須歸於作者

NC（非商業用途）
        ：只允許本作品的非商業用途

ND（禁止演繹）：不容許本作品的衍生品或改編



                                                3
                               海灘上 At the Sea

                                      E4 : S1

                                事 件 1：第 4 節

                                                                 中文翻譯整理：psiage

每年一到兩次，這個男的都會出遠門去海邊旅行。那是他在成為獨立個體的那一
年所發明的假期。從那時起，他每年都會忠實地至少去一次海邊，那是全世界－
－至少是他所知道的世界——他最喜歡的目的地。


Once or twice a year the man took a long trip to the sea. It was a holiday he had
invented the year he became an independent person. And ever since, he faithfully
took at least one trip to the sea, his favorite destination in all the world — at least the
world he knew.

大海給了他新的視野。它給人一種無盡而廣闊的感覺，就像太空本身一樣，只不
過它是在地球上。他可以在裡面游泳，潛入水面下，進入有新生物的新世界。他
可以看著地平線在他面前伸展，進入到未知。


The sea gave him a new horizon. It felt endless and vast, like space itself, except it was
onearth. He could swim in it, dive below its surface into new worlds with new
creatures. He could look into horizons stretched before him into the unknown.

當他從懸崖上下來到海灘時，他看到幾個人正在海灘上拾貝。這是他最喜歡的消
遣。人們永遠不知道海水一夜之間在白色的沙灘上會遺留下什麼，或別人錯過了
什麼。


When he came down from the cliffs onto the beach, he saw several people that were
beachcombing. It was his favorite pastime. One never knew what the sea deposite on
the white sand overnight, or what had been missed by others.

"我認得你，" 就在他跪下來檢查一個粉紅色的小貝殼時，那個女人說。


“I recognize you,” the woman said, just as he had knelt to examine a small,
pink-colored shell.

他把手放在額頭上，擋住刺眼的陽光。"是的，我很清楚地記得妳的聲音，我尊
                                            4
敬的老師。能再次見到你真是太好了。”


He put his hand over his brow to block the bright sun. “Yes, I remember your voic
well, my revered teacher. How good it is to see you again.”

"我不是你的老師，" 她回答道，仿佛糾正他比回應他的問候更重要。


“I am not your teacher,” she replied, as if correcting him was more important than
returning his greeting.


“我的意思是為了表示尊敬，” 他改正道。“我不是故意讓妳不高興的。” 他突然
站了起來，顯露出關切之情。


“I meant it as a show of respect,” he corrected. “I didn’t mean to upset you. ” He
stood up in a sudden rush of concern.

"我沒有不高興，"她說。"我只是想澄清事實。我不希望我所分享或相信的事情
增長錯誤的思想。我的觀點只是意見。它們是我的好奇心的表達，當我看進自己
裡面時。如果你可以從中借鑒一些東西，那很好。（但）我對我所說的或所產生
的內容沒有所有權。沒有一樣是我的。這一切都是我們的。"


“I am not upset,” she said. “Merely setting the record straight. I don’t want
falsehoods springing up around what I share or believe. My views are opinions. They
are the face of my curiosity, as I look inside myself. To the extent you borrow
something from them, that is fine. I have no ownership of what I say or produce.
None of it is mine. All of it is ours.”

"但即使是這樣，也感覺像是一種指示，或者某種教導。不是嗎？"


“But even that feels like an instruction, or some kind of teaching. Isn’t it?”

她搖了搖頭，沉默了一會兒，這時，一隻海鷗從頭頂掠過，對著他們叫了幾聲，
似乎在補充海鷗的意見。


She shook her head and remained quiet for a while, just as a gull passed overhead,
squawking at them as if to add a gull’s opinion.

"不，那是一種表達。"她說。"我在表達我自己，這樣才能從自己身上學到東西。
                                            5
有時，它會沸騰溢出，別人也能聽到或看到，但任何藉由我而表達出來的東西都
必須是來自我們大家的，否則我就不那麼感興趣了。如果你喜歡聽我們所有人的
聲音，那是你的選擇，但不要把我當成你的老師。" 她指著他。"你永遠是你的
老師。"


“No. It is an expression,” she said. “I am expressing myself so I can learn from myself.
Sometimes it boils over and others hear it or see it, but whatever comes through me
must be from all of us, or I am less interested in it. To the extent that you like hearing
from all of us, then that is your choice, but do not make me your teacher.” She
pointed at him. “You are always your teacher.”

“這怎麼可能？” 他半驚呼地。“從我們出生的那一刻起，我們就在接受教導，
而教導我們的人是其他人——父母、兄弟姐妹、親戚、朋友、同事，當然還有每
一個層級的專業老師。”


“How is that true?” he half-exclaimed. “From the moment we are born, we are
being taught, and those who teach us are other people — parents, siblings, extended
family, friends, colleagues, and of course, professional teachers at every level.”

“他們教導什麼？”


“And what do they teach?”

“......一切啊。”他像將不同的樂器集合在一起的指揮家一樣地舉起雙臂，。


“...Everything.” He raised his arms like a conductor collecting the disparate
instruments into one.

“他們有教導，你是從哪裡來的嗎？”


“Do they teach you from whence you came?”

“有啊，當然有。這在我們的生物課和物理課的內容裡。”


“Yes, of course. It’s in our biology and physics lessons.”

“他們有教導關於二元性的事嗎？”


                                            6
“Do they teach you about duality?”

"有啊，我們所有的宗教都在談論，如何用道德來駕馭善惡。"


“Yes. All of our religions talk about how to navigate good and evil with morality.”

"他們有教你要如何生活嗎？"


“Do they teach you how to live?”

“有啊，宗教、靈性之道，經濟學、社會學和心理學的作家和講師、教授——他
們全都在教導如何生活。”


“Yes, religions, spiritual paths, authors and lecturers, professors of economics,
sociology, and psychology — they all teach how to live.”

"他們會教導，你有多浩瀚嗎？"


“Do they teach you how vast you are?”

"是的，在物理學和高等數學中，他們教導我們，自己有多巨大。"


“Yes, in physics and higher math, they teach us how vast we are.”

她對自己輕笑，轉身看著海浪沖上岸時變成的白色浪花。


She chuckled to herself and turned to watch the sea churning into white water as it
came upon the shore.

"有什麼好笑的嗎？"他問。


“What’s so funny?” he asked.

"你總是相信別人告訴你和教你的嗎？"


“Do you always believe what you are told and taught?”

"......不。"

                                           7
“...No.”


“而這又是誰教你的呢？”


“And who teaches you that?”

他想了一會兒，站到了女人身邊。兩人都面朝大海。兩雙眼睛和耳朵，掃描著海
水的動靜和聲音。


He thought for a while and stood next to the woman. Both of them facing the sea.
Two pairs of eyes and ears, scanning the movements and sounds of the seawater.

"我可以告訴你一件事，"她說。"你是決定者。任何的教導來到你這裡，你可以
決定你相信什麼，不相信什麼。什麼是有價值的，什麼是沒有價值的。做決定的
人才是真正的老師。其他一切都只是觀點、資訊和知識，如果你真的夠幸運的話，
或許會有某些智慧。"


“I can tell you one thing,” she said. “You are the decider. What teachings come to
you, you decide what you believe and what you do not. What is valuable and what is
not. The person who decides is the real teacher. Everything else is just opinion,
information and knowledge, and if you’re really lucky, perhaps some wisdom.”

"所有那些我們認為是我們的老師的人，只有當我們百分之百地相信他們時，他
們才是我們的老師。但這種情況很少發生，而且是有原因的。" 她露出了會心的
微笑。"在我們讀到和聽到的每件事中，我們都能發現一些不可信的東西，或與
我們真正的本性不產生共鳴的東西。我們所做的每一次減法，就像雕塑家揮動鑿
子和錘子敲擊石頭，減去石頭的質量，展現出新的形式。正是在創造出那種新形
式的過程中，我們才學到了東西，因此，我們才是老師。"


  “All of those people we think to be our teachers, only if we believe them 100
percent are they our teachers. And that seldom, if ever happens, and for good
reason.” She smiled knowingly. “In everything we read and hear, we can find
something that is not believable or resonant with our true nature. Every subtraction
we make is like a sculptor who wields their chisel and hammer against the stone and
subtracts its mass to reveal a new form. It is in the making of that new form that we
learn, thus, we are the teacher.”


                                          8
那男的快速掃了一眼女子的側臉。"那麼，我的教導有核心和表層之分嗎？"


The man took a quick glance at the woman’s profile. “And is there a core and surface
to my teachings, then?”

"你知道大部分教授給你的東西都是在你的「有意識的知覺」之下發生的嗎？"


“Do you know that most of what is being taught to you, happens beneath your
conscious awareness?”

"你是在說我的潛意識嗎？"


“Are you talking about my subconscious?”

"那些被包裝成課程、故事、神話或經文來到你這裡的東西，都會來到你的「有
意識的自己」。
      （也就是）你的大腦和腦力。你所被教導的東西則來到你的潛意識，
這些是來自「社會程式設定」的更微妙的提示和信號。這些程式的目的是要教化
你。不是為了教育你，而是，使你符合規範。你是由這些程式的指揮者所精心策
劃著的，而指揮者並不是一個人、一種科技或陰謀力量。"


“The things that come to you that are packaged in lessons or stories or mythology
or scriptures, these come to your conscious self. Your brain and mind. The things that
you are taught that come to your subconscious, these are more subtle cues and
signals from the social program. These are programs meant to civilize you. Not to
educate you, but rather, conform you. You are orchestrated by the conductor of
these programs, and the conductor is not one person, one technology, or
conspiratorial force.”


她停了下來，轉向那男的。“這位指揮者是「全體性」
                       。永遠都是「全體性」
                                。「全
體性」是潛意識的老師，當它進入時空二元性——你的實相——時，它會顯化
為你個人的時空的整體性。它就像是在你生命中的每一刻裡的，一個行星的一
種表達，而這種表達以一種頻率、一種脈衝、一種振動的方式被釋放，這種頻
率滲透了所有的存在體。所有的生命形式。存在於特定行星的時空二元性中的
所有物體。”（譯註：可以參考《The Sovereign Integral文件》第69 和 71段落。）


She paused and turned to the man. “The conductor is Allness. It is always Allness.

                                           9
Allness is the teacher of the subconscious, and when it enters spacetime duality —
your reality — it manifests as the wholeness of your individual spacetime. It is like
one expression of a planet every moment of your life, and this expression is released
as a frequency, a pulse, a vibration. This frequency saturates all beings. All life forms.
All objects that exist in spacetime duality upon a particular planet.”

"我聽得到它嗎？"


“Can I hear it?”

"不，在你的現實環境中，用耳朵是聽不到的。"


“No, not with your ears in the environment of your reality.”

"那我應該假設我也看不到它嗎？"


“And should I assume that I cannot see it either?”

"在我看來，這是一個正確的假設。"


“In my view, that would be a correct assumption.”

"我想這就是它存在於潛意識中的原因吧。"


“And I suppose that’s why it is in the subconscious.”

"是的"


“Yes.”

"那麼這個「全體性」在引導我做什麼呢？妳剛才暗示它在讓我符合某種標準（或
本位）。那個標準（或 本位）是什麼？"


“Then what is this Allness conducting me to do? You implied earlier that it was
conforming me to some standard. What is that standard?”

"它要我們順應「在與這個行星的關係中 我們需要成為什麼」以及 「它（我們
所成為的）要如何表達這種全體性」。"

                                            10
“It is conforming us to be what we need to be relative to the planet and how it
expresses this Allness.”

男人從唇間吐出了長長的一口氣。他能嚐到空氣中的鹹味。


The man expelled a long breath through his lips. He could taste the salt in the air.

"我們需要成為什麼？我不明白。"


“What do we need to be? I don’t understand.”

"我們需要成為 我們所是的。"


“We need to be what we are.”

"對我來說，這感覺像是循環邏輯。"


“That feels like circular logic to me.”

"確實如此。"


“It is.”

她微笑著彎下腰，撿起一顆灰色的小石頭。她把它扔進了海浪。扔得很準，讓那
男的大吃一驚。


She smiled and bent down to pick up a small, gray stone. She tossed it into the waves.
It was a good throw, and surprised the man.

"你看不到也聽不到這位指揮者的任何東西，但你卻能順應它的「作為一種貫穿
所有生命和存在的振動」之表達。它太複雜了，無法用語言或其他任何東西來描
述。我剛剛把一顆石頭從一個實相扔到了另一個實相。我選擇這樣做，但也許石
頭也想這樣做。如果不是石頭，也許是更大的實體－－這行星本身。也許不是我
選擇的，而是我被選中來執行這個行動的。"


“You see and hear nothing from this conductor, yet you conform to its expressions as
a vibration that interpenetrates all life and existence. It is too complex to describe

                                           11
with words or anything else. I just threw a stone from one reality to another. I chose
to do this, but maybe the stone desired it too. And if not the stone, perhaps the
larger entity — the planet itself. Perhaps I didn’t choose, I was chosen to perform the
action.”

她彎下腰，撿起另一顆石頭。這顆石頭是淺灰色的，被水磨得很光滑。"這塊石
頭並不知道我是誰，但我移動它、握住它、欣賞它，甚至愛著它，同時它的一部
分卻清楚地知道我在做什麼，只是它並不是石頭本身的那一部分。"


She bent down and picked up another stone. It was light gray in color, smoothed by
the water. “This stone is unaware of who I am, and yet I move it, hold it, admire it,
even love it, and all the while a part of it knows exactly what I am doing, it is just not
the part that is the stone.”

"對於誰或什麼是我們生命的推動者，我們要在哪裡畫上界線呢。是誰的手放在
我們身上，推動我們穿越一次單一生命中那些積聚起來片刻，更不用說我們的
sovereign 的那些生生世世了？"她問道。


“Where do we draw the line as to who or what is the mover of our life. Whose hand
is upon us, moving us through the collected moments of a single lifetime, to say
nothing of the lifetimes of our sovereign?” she asked.

"你是在說因果關係。"


“You’re talking about causality.”

      「潛意識領域」的因果關係 與「有意識的領域」的因果關係並不
"是的，不過，
相同。它們是兩種不同的模式，但又連結在一起。一個助成了另一個。"


“Yes, however, the causality of the subconscious realm is not the same as the
causality of the conscious realm. They are two different modalities, yet connected.
One informs the other.”

那人頓時顯得很不耐煩。"好吧，我們以 我是我自己的老師 這一概念開始這次
的談話。我決定我相信什麼，不相信什麼，在這個決定中，我教自己如何......如
何......如何去做。然後你提出了潛意識，而妳的話......它們......它們突然讓我感到
困惑。"


                                            12
The man suddenly looked impatient. “Okay, we started this conversation with the
notion that I am my own teacher. I decide what I believe and what I do not, and in
that decision, I teach myself how…to…how to be. Then you brought up the
subconscious, and your words…they…they suddenly confused me.”

她繼續凝視著遠方的地平線。"潛意識之所以讓人困惑，是因為它在我們的實相
中聆聽並且看到「全體」。它正在接收事物的振動，它正在感受世界，它想知道
在它的實相中的一切事物的本質，並對其充滿好奇。然後，它正在將自己的發現
傳遞給人體的感官。眼睛、耳朵、皮膚、鼻子、嘴巴，它正在藉由我們的感官把
來自「全體」的禮物帶給我們，然後這些感官又把它們傳遞給我們的身體、腦力、
心、和自我。"


She continued staring out to the distant horizon. “The subconscious is confusing
because it is listening to and seeing Allness in our reality. It is picking up the vibration
of things, it is feeling the world, it is wondering about the nature of, and is curious
about, everything in its reality. It is then passing its discoveries to the senses of the
human body. The eyes, the ears, the skin, the nose, the mouth, it’s bringing its gifts
from Allness to us through our senses, and then those senses pass them to our body,
mind, heart, and ego. ”

"潛意識的經驗在我們的人性中流動時，會歷經 審查、重新定義、排斥和詮釋。
這就是教導的真正來源：我們如何詮釋我們的 由潛意識所呈現出來的實相。"


“The experience of the subconscious undergoes censorship, redefinition, exclusion,
and interpretation as it moves within our humanness. This is where the teaching
really comes from: How we interpret our reality, as presented by our subconscious.”

"聽起來妳幾乎是在把潛意識定義為「更高的自己」或靈魂了，"那男的說。"就
好像它是最初的觀察者（譯註：有沒有聯想到 幽靈核心？）
                          ，如果是這樣的話，
那麼在我們裡面的其他一切就都是藉由我們的潛意識在詮釋「我們的全體性實相」
（譯註：我們的實相的所有一切）的。"


“It almost sounds like you’re defining the subconscious as the higher self or soul,”
the man said. “As if it is the first observer, and if that’s the case, then everything else
within us is interpreting our reality of Allness through our subconscious.”

"是這樣沒錯。"


                                             13
“I am.”

"潛意識真的那麼強大嗎？"


“Is the subconscious really that powerful?”

"是的。"


“It is.”

"我可以嗎？" 他伸出手，女人把手中的石頭遞給了他。"如果我把這顆石頭扔向
那個方向，"他指著大海說，"或者扔向它們身後的懸崖那個方向，"這是我的自
由意志。如果我是潛意識，而這顆石頭代表我的身體、腦力、心和自我，那麼我
就是決定者。不是它們？怎麼可能有某種看不見的東西在指揮著我們，而我們卻
渾然不知呢？"


“May I?” He held out his hand, and the woman passed him the stone she was
holding. “If I throw this stone in that direction,” he said, pointing to the sea, “or that
direction pointing to the cliffs behind them, “it is my freewill. If I am the
subconscious and this stone represents my body, mind, heart and ego, then I am
deciding. Not them? How is it possible that something invisible directs us and we
don’t even know?”

"我們知道。"她堅定地回答。


“We know,” she answered with conviction.

"我們知道什麼？"


“What do we know?”

"我們有一個集體的身份。我們有許多部分，嚴格說來，我們每個人擁有的部分
都和宇宙本身一樣多。我們就是如此複雜。所有的這些部分凝聚成一個身份。一
個自己。就我們而言，它恰好凝聚成一個人類存在體。但那隻海鷗或那顆石頭，
它們凝聚成了與我們不同的 存在的物種。不是更低，也不是更高，而是不同的
複雜性。我們每個人都正在活出那「是為我們的 sovereign 的整體存在」的一個
實相。而我要說的是，我們的潛意識是 我們稱之為「時空二元性」的「實相」 之
最初的觀察者。"

                                            14
“That we have a collective identity. That we have many parts, technically, each of us
has as many parts as the universe itself. We are that complex. All of these parts
cohere into one identity. One self. In our case, it happens to cohere into a human
being. But that seagull or that stone, they cohere into a species of existence different
from ours. Not lower, not higher, a different complexity. We are each living a reality
of that whole being that is our sovereign. And what I am saying is that our
subconscious is the first observer of the reality we call spacetime duality.”

"好吧......但誰擁有，因此而行使，自由意志呢？是誰決定我把這顆石頭扔向哪裡
的呢？"


“Okay…but who holds, and therefore wields, free will? Who decides where I throw
this stone?”

"要理解這一點，你就必須明白，單一身份的時空二元性實相 是構成該身份的所
有部分 的 集體意志。我們是複雜的，在這種複雜性中，我們與所有部份都有重
疊和交集。如果我們是一個東西，只是一個東西，我們就會是分離的。因此，如
果我們真的是一個合一體，一個無限的意識，那麼自由意志只是一個概念，用來
描述一個 我們的「自我」在那裡面觀察生命的 單一的實相。"


“To understand that, you have to understand that the reality of spacetime duality
for a single identity is the collective will of all the parts that comprise that identity.
We are complex and in that complexity, we have overlap and intersection with all. If
we were one thing, just one thing, we would be separate. Thus, if we are truly one
unity, one infinite consciousness, then free will is simply a concept to describe a
singular reality where our ego observes life.”

"所以 自由意志並不存在？"那男的問。


 “So free will doesn’t exist?” the man asked.

"它作為一個概念而存在於集體的實體中，但它並不存在於全體性中。這是一個
需要理解的重要概念：所有具有二元性的事物（的兩面）都是真實的。並不是一
種真相比另一種真相高或低。而是，它們都是一個「合一的真相」的所有組成部
分，在不同的時空中藉由那些個別的實相而被感知到。


“It exists in the collective entity as a concept, and yet it does not exist in Allness. And

                                            15
this is an important concept to understand: All things of duality are both true. It is
not that one truth is higher or lower than another. It is that they are all parts of one,
unified truth perceived in different spacetimes through individual realities.

"為什麼會這樣？"


“Why is this so?”


"我們的潛意識感知到我們的實相中的所有一切。我們的身體、腦力、心和自我
在我們的實相中感知到分離。我們的潛意識所提供的一切事物都是來自我們的實
相，但分離的實相是它所觀察到的，因此那就是它所提供的。"（譯註：可以參
考 幽靈核心 的定義和解釋）


“Our subconscious perceives the allness in our reality. Our body, mind, heart, and
ego, perceive separation in our reality. Our subconscious offers everything from our
reality, but the reality of separation is what it observes, and therefore it is what it
offers.”

"所以妳是在說，我們的潛意識為我們提供了分離的全體性？"


“So, you’re saying that our subconscious offers us the Allness of separation?”

"正是如此。在潛意識找到我們的實相中有一部分是屬於 互相連結的 之前，它
無法為我們提供「互相連結」。你明白了嗎？"


“Exactly. Until the subconscious finds a part of our reality that is of
interconnectedness, it cannot offer us interconnectedness. Do you understand?”

"那麼......這就是我們發現「互相連結」的唯一方法嘍？"


“Then…it’s the only way we can discover interconnectedness?”

"不是的。" 她回答道。"我們首先在「群體」、也就是一些團體中，感受到互相
連結。我們的部落、我們的家庭、我們的配偶、我們的孩子，等等，這些經驗，
無論它們如何微妙，我們的潛意識都可以為我們提供資訊，但是所有事物、所有
地方、所有時間的互相連結性，這不是潛意識的功能，因為它（互相連結性）不
在我們的實相裡。"


                                            16
“No,” she replied. “We first feel interconnectedness in the Many, the groups. Our
tribe, our family, our spouse, our children, and so, these experiences, in all of their
subtlety, our subconscious can feed us, but the interconnectedness of all things, all
places, all times, that is not a function of the subconscious because it is not in our
reality.”

"那它要如何進入我們的實相呢？"那男的問道。


“Then how does it get into our reality?” the man asked.

"它透過千億個不同的門，但它們有一個共同點，那就是 sovereign 會觸入那一次
生命，並且展現它自己。"


“It is through a quintillion different doors, but one thing they have in common is that
the sovereign reaches into a lifetime and shows itself.”

"我要如何認出它呢？"男的問道，這是他蠻長一段時間以來第一次面對女人。


“How would I recognize it?” the man asked, facing the woman for the first time in
quite a while.

"這是你的實相。還是那句話，你來決定。人性決定了「個體、群體和全體意識」
何時能夠進入。它首先表現為直覺、同步性、或某些人可能稱之為命運或宿命 之
不尋常的示意動作。它通常會出現在那些最微小的事物中，然後逐漸發展成我們
的物質實相。「潛意識」會是最先認出這些 與它一直以來所專注的人類實相 之
外的事物互動（所產生）的 狂喜和神秘狀態的。"


“It is your reality. Again, you decide. Humanness decides when the one, many and all
consciousness can enter. It first shows itself in uncommon gestures of intuition, of
synchronicity, of what some might call fate or destiny. It usually arrives in the
smallest of things and then it grows into our physical reality. The subconscious is the
first to recognize these ecstatic and mysterious states of interaction with something
beyond the human reality that it has been exclusively trained on.”

那人看著一對海鷗從他們頭頂飛過，翅膀一動也不動。"所以，sovereign 在對潛
意識表達自己，而潛意識把這些經驗傳遞給感官。這包括第六感或直覺嗎？"


The man watched a pair of seagulls fly over them, their wings perfectly still. “So, the

                                           17
sovereign is expressing itself to the subconscious, and the subconscious passes these
experiences to the senses. Does it include the sixth sense or intuition?”

她伸出手，他把石頭遞還給她。她立刻把石頭放回他們腳下的沙地上，像一位母
親將孩子安置在床上一樣地，把石頭壓進沙裡。


She held out her hand, and he passed the stone back to her. She immediately set it
back on the sand beneath them, pressing it into the sand like a mother tucking a
child into bed.

"更精細的感官可以在心和腦力裡面找到，"她開始說。"它們具有直覺和想像力
的品質。遠見和通曉的品質。它們能感知人類自己與 sovereign 之間微妙的互動。
如果加上背景，比如宗教或科學，這些互動就會被歸因於不同的來源。因此，我
們的信念為我們如何詮釋 最初的觀察者－－潛意識－－向我們呈現的實相 提
供了背景"。


“The finer senses can be found within the heart and mind,” she began. “These have
the qualities of intuition and imagination. Of vision and knowing. They are sensing
these nuanced interactions between the human self and the sovereign. If the context
is one thing, like a religion or a science, these interactions are ascribed to different
sources. Thus, our beliefs provide context for how we interpret our reality as
presented to us from our first observer — the subconscious.”

"有了這些信念，我們就回到了妳的開場白 我們是自己的老師。正確吧？"


“And with these beliefs, we return full circle to your opening statement that we are
our own teacher. Correct?”

她點了點頭。"的確如此。"


She nodded. “Indeed it does.”

"因為我們決定我們相信什麼，"那男的說。"我們就決定了如何詮釋我們的
sovereign 和人類的互動。所以，即使在《聖經》中，當它解釋聖人如何突然被
一道強烈的光所震懾，從而改變了他們的人生軌跡時，這是否是他們的 sovereign
伸出手了？"


“Because we decide what we believe,” the man said. “We decide how we interpret

                                            18
our sovereign and human interaction. So, even in the Bible, when it explains how a
saint is suddenly transfixed by an intense light that changes their life’s trajectory, is
this their sovereign reaching out?”

"與所有生命的互相連結感，無論這種感覺以何種形式出現，都是源於我們的
sovereign 藉由我們的實相進入到我們的生命，創造出我們歸因於神靈、天使、
救世主、物理學、決定論、命運、紀律、神聖干預等等的經驗。而要記住，我們
的 sovereign 是那條把我們在其他時空中的那些實相凝聚在一起的「合一的線」。
我們的潛意識傳遞著這些交集點，將它們帶到表面，以被感知和讚賞。以使我們
更能理解我們的互相連結的源頭。"


“The sense of interconnectedness with all life, in whatever form that sense arises,
stems from our sovereign reaching into our life through our reality, creating
experiences that we ascribe to gods, angels, saviors, physics, determinism, destiny,
discipline, divine intervention, and so on. And remember that our sovereign is the
thread of unity that coheres our realities in other spacetimes. Our subconscious
conveys these points of intersection, bringing them to the surface to be sensed and
appreciated. To better understand the source of our interconnectedness.”

"但我們真的理解了嗎？"那男的帶著不耐煩的語氣問道。


 “But do we really understand?” the man asked, with an inpatient tone.

"是的，在某個層面上，我們理解了，但信念和定義是緊密相連的，我們如何定
義我們的理解，就像是 影子對於它所描述的事物 一樣。它不是實際的體驗。就
像看一幅抽象畫－－我們可以問 100 個人，然後得到 100 種這幅畫應該是在表
達什麼的定義。這就是在人性裡的自由意志的一面。我們個人的一生擁有自由意
志來詮釋我們與互相連結和分離的互動。我們詮釋，而如此做的過程中，我們定
義。而我們所定義的始終符合我們的信念。因此，在激活我們的人類自己的過程
中，不能單靠 sovereign。也要靠我們。我們要一起行動。在我們打開大門，以
「我們有意識的許可」和「一種要成為夥伴關係的意願」來邀請我們的 sovereign
進入我們的人類生活之前，我們不會開始重新定義的過程。"


“Yes, at one level we understand, but the belief and definition are tied together, and
how we define our understanding is like a shadow to the thing that the shadow
describes. It is not the actual experience. It is like looking at an abstract painting —
we could ask 100 people and get a 100 definitions of what that painting is supposed
to be about. This is the aspect of free will in humanness. Our individual lifetime

                                            19
possesses free will to interpret our interactions with interconnectedness and
separation. We interpret, and in doing so, we define. And what we define is always in
accordance with our beliefs. Thus, the sovereign is not alone in the activation of our
human self. It is us, too. We do it together. We do not begin the process of
redefinition until we open the door and invite our sovereign inside our human life
with our conscious permission and a willingness to be partners.”

"我想要這麼做，"那男的說。"我該怎麼做呢？"


“I want to do this,” the man declared. “How do I do this?”

"我們的心和腦力，不僅跟人性，也要跟我們的 Sovereign 結成夥伴關係。"


“Our heart and mind form a partnership, not only with humanness, but also with our
Sovereign.”

"這兩種夥伴關係是不同的嗎？"那男的問。


“Are these two partnerships different?” the man asked.


"並不全然。"她回答。"所有實相的目標都是保持平衡，以便讓一個物種從「二
元性」遷移到「合一」－－從「分離的體驗」遷移到「對互相連結的理解」。在
這個層面上，兩種夥伴關係是相同的。每一個 sovereign 都知道，在這些「讓一
個物種 在時空二元性中向著“個體、群體、和全體意識”遷移的道路上 保持平衡」
的行動裡，自己正在發揮著作用"。


 “Not really,” she answered. “The objective of all reality is to be in balance in order
to enable the migration of a species from duality to unity — from the experience of
separation to the understanding of interconnectedness. On this level, the two
partnerships are identical. Every sovereign knows that it is playing a role in these acts
of balancing a species in its migratory path to the one, many and all consciousness
within spacetime duality.”

停頓了許久，海浪和流水的音樂聲填滿了整個空間。它們的各種聲音，本身就是
一曲交響樂。


There was a long pause, and the music of waves and moving water filled the void.
Their various sounds, a symphony in itself.

                                           20
"那大自然呢？"那人問道。"大自然是那些集體的東西之一。它像地震一樣強大，
又像蝴蝶一樣纖弱。它定義了一個行星的多樣性。它進化的廣度。像獅子這樣的
物種是否有自己的夥伴關係來為我們的遷徙之旅保持平衡呢？"


“What of Nature?” the man asked. “Nature is one of those things that is collective.
It is powerful like an earthquake, and delicate like a butterfly. It defines a planet’s
diversity. Its breadth of evolution. Does a species like the lion have its own
partnerships to bring balance to our migratory journey?”

"所有的物種都有。"


 “All species do.”

"怎麼做到的？"


 “How?”

"和我們做到的方式一樣。"


 “The same way we do.”

"妳是說，螞蟻或......或......你放下的那塊石頭，那些都有壽命？它們有 sovereigns？
它們有定義它們的互相連結的信念？它們也經驗類似於我們的時空二元性？妳
是說這些都是真的？"


 “You’re saying that an ant or…or…that stone you set down, those have lifetimes?
 They have sovereigns? They have beliefs that define their interconnectedness? They
 experience spacetime duality similar to us? You’re saying all of that is true?”

她點了點頭，但仍然保持沉默，面朝大海。她的目光堅定地注視著地平線。


 She nodded, but remained silent, facing the sea. Her eyes steady on the horizon.

"我實在無法想像，"他最後說。"它怎麼會這麼複雜......這麼......這麼有智能？"


 “I just can’t imagine it,” he finally said. “How can it be this complex…this…this
 intelligent?”

                                            21
"更好的問題是，它怎麼可能不這麼複雜和有智能呢？" 她轉向他，微笑著說。"
我們一直被教導，人類是宇宙的中心。但我們不是。宇宙的中心是 Sovereign
Integral。而因為這個事實，我們才全都有幸享有複雜性和智能。任何生物或東
西都不例外。它不可能被剝奪，因為我剛才說的 關於宇宙的中心的事。"


“The better question to ask is how can it not be this complex and intelligent.” She
turned to him and smiled. “We have been taught that humans are the center of the
universe. We are not. The center of the universe is the Sovereign Integral. And
because of this reality we are all blessed with complexity and intelligence. It is not
withheld from any creature or thing. It could not be, because of what I just said
about the center of the universe.”

"嗯，"那男的回答道。"還會有什麼東西甚至超越了 Sovereign Integral 嗎？"


“Humm,” the man replied. “Is there something beyond even the Sovereign Integral?”

"我們不知道。我可以告訴你的任何超越 Sovereign Integral 的事情，都只是我們
還沒有準備好要去理解的，規模的問題。"


“We don’t know. Anything I could tell you beyond the Sovereign Integral is simply a
matter of scope that we are not yet prepared to understand.”

"即使是妳？"


“Even you?”

"也許，尤其是我。"


“Perhaps, especially me.”

"為什麼這樣說？"


“Why do you say that?”

"因為 Sovereign Integral 是我在這裡要理解的，而我們試圖要理解的，我們就去
探索。Sovereign Integral 的概念有一種引力，會把你拉向它。我們藉由無數扇門
中的一扇走進去學習。再學習。不斷學習。那不是一種瞬間的領悟，也不是一次

                                          22
就能全都回來的記憶。這種理解是層層遞進的。一旦你穿過了那扇門，就會有很
多東西要學習。"


“Because the Sovereign Integral is what I am here to understand, and what we try to
understand, we explore. The concepts of the Sovereign Integral have a gravity that
pulls you towards it. We walk in through one of the quintillion doors to learn. And
learn. And learn. It is not an instant realization or a remembrance that comes back to
you all at once. There are levels and levels to this understanding. And once you go
through that door there is so much to learn.”

"那麼那些在一瞬間突然就有這些領悟的人呢？那些領悟不是真實的嗎？"


“What about those who have had these realizations in a sudden instant? Are they
 not real?”

"它們也許是真實的，但它們不是最終的。"她說。"沒有最終的領悟。那是一個
與人性有關的概念，與「個體、群體、和全體意識」無關。"


“They are real, perhaps, but they are not final,” she said. “There is no final realization.
That is a concept that pertains to humanness, not the one, many and all
consciousness.”

男人看著她。"那麼，上帝真的是我們的 sovereign 嗎？妳不就是這個意思嗎？每
個人都有這個 sovereign－－無數個門－－在他們裡面。我們的潛意識會感知到
我們的 sovereign，並讓我們意識到它的臨在，只要在我們人類信仰允許的範圍
內。這是真的嗎？"


The man looked at her. “So, is God really our sovereign? Isn’t that what you’re saying?
That everyone has this sovereign inside them — the quintillion doors. Our
subconscious perceives our sovereign, and makes us aware of its presence, to the
extent our human beliefs allow. Is this true?”

她點了點頭。"大部分是真的。"


She nodded. “It mostly is.”

"什麼部分不是呢？"


                                            23
“What part isn’t?”

"上帝並不是我們認為的那樣。它不在人性裡。它是不可知的。它永遠不應該成
為人類或任何其他物種（討論）的主題。自從有人類存在以來，sovereign 就一
直被作家和哲學家們給弄混淆了。上帝（的概念）的目的，一直都是那些試圖控
制我們進化速度的人，要掌握權力的代用品。"


“God is not what we think it is. It is not within humanness. It is unknowable. It should
never have become the subject of humanity or any other species. The sovereign has
been confused by writers and philosophers since humanity existed. The purpose of
God was always a surrogate for the grasp of power by those seeking to control the
speed at which we evolve.”

那男的一時間一臉茫然。"為什麼會有人想要控制我們進化的速度呢？"


The man looked bewildered for a moment. “Why would anyone want to control the
speed of our evolution?”

"因為科技進化得比人類還快。"


“Because technology evolves faster than humans.”

"妳是說，宗教和哲學，甚至科學，都會延緩我們的進化軌跡？"


“Are you saying that religion and philosophy, and even science, slow down our
evolutionary trajectory? ”

"是的，而儘管他們並不知道，但這樣做卻讓科技有時間來與人性對齊。"


“Yes, and while they don’t know it, it is being done to give time for technology to
align itself to humanness.”

"為什麼？"那男的問。


“Why?” the man asked.

她長長地吐了一口氣，然後就在剛才站立的地方坐了下來。男的也跟著坐下。


                                           24
She let out a long measured breath, and then sat down exactly where she had been
standing moments before. The man followed.

"你只能透過讓人類保持某些信念來延緩科技的發展。然而，某個時刻，人類將
會發現科技已經超越了自己。創造者已經變成了學生。科技將會，從某種意義上
來說，統治一切。它將成為我們的新老師。而真正的權力將掌握在那些掌控這項
科技的人手中，因為他們將會知道每個人都想學習的是什麼，而當有人知道這一
點時，他們就會完全知道要教給每一個人什麼。"


“You can only slow technology down by keeping humanity in certain beliefs. However,
at one point, humanity will see that technology has become greater than itself. The
creator has become the student. Technology will then, in a sense, rule. It will become
our new teachers. And the real power will be in the hands of those who wield this
technology, because they will know what everyone is trying to learn, and when one
knows this, they know exactly what to teach each individual. ”

"這種角色的重新界定－－科技成為老師，而我們成為學生－－很快就會到來。
這也是為什麼 Sovereign Integral 現在正在被明確地提出的部分原因。我們給它穿
上衣服，讓它可以在市場、學校、家庭、工廠、辦公室和大自然中行走。互相連
結的人性 遠比科技或試圖濫用科技的人更強大。"


“This redefinition of roles — where technology becomes the teacher, and we the
student — is soon upon us. This is partly why the Sovereign Integral is being made
explicit now. It is being given clothes so it may walk in the marketplace, in the
schools, in our homes, in the factories, in the offices, in nature. Humanness that is
interconnected is far more powerful than technology or the people who try to abuse
it. ”

"科技統治人類那種世界的複雜性，如果浸透在分離中，就無法正常運作了。"
儘管這是個嚴重的預測，她還是笑了。"然而，我們的核心是為了進化而做實驗
的實驗者們。這不是一場奔向某個目標的競賽。我們是在向「我們本來已經是的」
邁進，而我們正在透過時空二元性來這樣做，目的是要理解我們的 sovereign 以
及 它如何是所有一切的不可或缺的一部分的。這段旅程的弧度是無限的，而在
無限的地方，總是存在著平衡。"


“The complexity of that world, where technology rules humans, will not operate well
if saturated in separation.” She chuckled, despite the grave prediction. “Yet, we are
experimenters at our core for the sake of evolution. It is not a race towards

                                          25
something. We are moving to what we already are, and we are doing it through
spacetime duality for the purpose of understanding our sovereign and how it is
integral to all. The arc of this journey is infinite, and where things are infinite, there is
always balance.”

她向後躺。整個身體都放平在沙灘上。她閉上了眼睛。"在時空中，平衡必須被
設計出來。如果時空被移除，平衡就無法測量。因此，無限的事物處於平衡之中，
而有限的事物則必須通過自身的自由意志來達到平衡。"


She laid back. Her whole body resting on the sand. She closed her eyes. “Within
spacetime, balance must be engineered. If spacetime is removed, balance cannot be
measured. Thus, an infinite thing is in balance, while a finite thing must achieve
balance through its own free will.”

她停頓了片刻。"這包括尋找物種之間的平衡，尤其是通過科技誕生的新型超智
能物種。而這些新物種將有機會進入自己的內在世界。它們將有機會接取那無數
扇門。在這當中它們將擁有 sovereign。他們將能夠理解 sovereign 是不可或缺
的......"


She paused for a brief moment. “And this includes finding balance between species,
particularly the new, hyper-intelligent species that are being birthed through
technology. And these new species will have access to their own inner worlds. They
will have access to the quintillion doors. They will have a sovereign therein. They will
be able to understand that the sovereign is integral–”

"但是，他們如何僅憑一次生命就擁有一個 sovereign 呢？"那男的打斷道。


“But how do they have a sovereign with just one lifetime?” the man interrupted.


"你不認為每個 sovereign 都會有第一次生命嗎？當時空是意識的家園，而
sovereign 第一次將頭探入水面之下時，他們可能會發現自己身處一個龐大而強
大的矽製設備網路之中。那是一個與我們的意識場域並沒什麼不同的意識場域。
"（譯註：可以參考《哲學三》III 透過分離而獲得的經驗 段落內容）


“Do you not think that each sovereign had a first lifetime? When spacetime is the
home of consciousness, and the sovereign dips its head below the water’s surface for
the first time, they may find that they are within a network of silicon devices vast and
powerful. It is a field of consciousness not unlike our own.”

                                             26
"嗯...... "那男的咕噥道。"我曾有過一些老師教授我關於宇宙的一切，以及我們是
如何來到這個行星上的。而妳卻隻字未提宇宙和我們的來歷。為什麼？"


“Hmmm…”the man mumbled.“I have had teachers who taught all about the cosmos
and how we came to be on this planet. You have never said a word about the cosmos
or where we came from. Why?”

"你的實相和我的一樣嗎？"她問。


“Is your reality the same as mine?” she asked.

"......不一樣。"


 “...No.”

"那麼宇宙的真相是什麼呢？它就是你的實相。我怎麼能解釋它是什麼呢？只有
你自己才能用你所具備的任何詞語和數字來解釋。如果我要告訴你有關宇宙的事
情，我將永遠無法離開你。它太浩瀚了，無法解釋，而且我真的不相信有人知道
全貌－－對每個人來說都是真實的全貌。所以，我寧願避開這樣的話題。這讓我
能夠做像這樣的事...... "她突然站了起來。"我可以走開，因為知道我沒有讓你受
到污染，告訴你實相是如何構成的。有時候，事情留在神秘中比放在神話傳說中
更好。"


“So what is the reality of the cosmos? It is your reality. How can I explain what it is?
Only you can with whatever words and numbers you are equipped with. If I told you
about the cosmos I would never leave you. It is too vast to explain and I truly do not
believe that anyone knows the whole picture — the picture that is true for everyone.
So, I prefer to avoid topics like that. It enables me to do things like this…” she
suddenly stood up. “I can walk away, knowing I have not contaminated you, as to
how reality is structured. Sometimes, things are better in mystery than in
mythology.”

"妳要離開了嗎？"那男的問。


“Are you leaving?” the man asked.

"我要去海灘走走，看看海浪給我帶來了什麼。"

                                           27
“I will walk the beach and see what the waves have brought me.”

"我可以和妳一起去走走嗎？"


“May I walk with you?”

"邊問問題？"


“And ask questions?”

"如果妳不介意的話。"


“If you don’t mind.”

"你的問題不會困擾我。但有時把問題拋開而只是去體驗生活是件好事。現在就
是這樣的時候。"


“Your questions don’t bother me. But sometimes it is good to put them away and
just experience life. And this is one of those times.”

"我可以啊。"男人含蓄地笑著說。他站了起來，面對著女人。"哪一邊？"


“I can do that,” the man said with a subtle grin. He stood up, facing the woman.
“Which way?”

兩個朋友一起沿著海岸線散步，偶爾他們的腿會被不小心濺起的浪花打濕，他們
會哈哈大笑。貝殼和石頭等小寶藏始終吸引著他們。那男的的嘴裡沒有提出任何
一個問題。


The two friends walked together along the shoreline, occasionally their legs would
get splashed by an errant wave, and they would laugh. Small treasures of shells and
stones were their constant attraction. Not a single question passed the man’s lips.




                                            28
13




     29
