                   鄭重提示
造翼者資料旨在創造全新的混合媒體娛樂形態。所有內容皆為虛構，僅供娛樂。
造翼者資料，藝術虛構了一個沉溺式體驗的宏大近未來世界；其中所謂知識和技
術皆為虛構敘事之一部分，請認真辨識，切勿當真、沉溺、盲信、盲從。


           《橋上的旅行者》

        《Travelers on a Bridge》

                      S1: e1

                作者:James.Mahu

         MOCI.life | Sovereignintegral.org
        WingMakers.com | JamesMahu.com
          MOCI.life提供免費有聲讀物

                   英文版:1.0

                中文翻譯：psiage

                     1
          CC BY-NC-ND包括以下要素:

         BY（署名）：署名必須歸於作者

             ：只允許本作品的非商業用途
     NC（非商業用途）

     ND（禁止演繹）：不容許本作品的衍生品或改編

                版權：知識共用

  知識共用BY-NC-ND：本許可容許使用者在保證著作權歸屬作者
前提下，基於非商業目的且無篡改地以任何媒體及格式複製和分發該
作品。



                        1
中英對照：橋上的旅行者


中文翻譯：psiage


Travelers on a Bridge

第一節：事件一


S1 : E1

一個年輕人獨自走在深山裡的一條路上。他遇到了一位年長的婦女，朝著和他相
對的方向走。當他們沿著各自的一邊在一座橋上擦身而過時，他問了她一個問題，
“對不起，女士，請問一下前面的路好走還是難走？”


A young man was walking along a road, high in the mountains. He came upon an
older woman, traveling in the opposite direction. As they passed each other on a
bridge, each on their own side, he asked her a question, "Excuse me, ma’am, is the
road ahead easier or harder?"

那婦女停住腳步。“你是要我回答你說的問題，還是你真正想知道的問題？”


The woman paused. "Do you want me to answer that question, or the question you
are really asking?"

旅者想了一下，然後說，“如果您是這麼睿智的話，那麼就由您來決定（您要回
答哪一個問題）
      ，但告訴我：我真正想問的問題是什麼？還有，妳怎麼會知道呢？”


The traveler thought for a while, and said, "If you are so wise, then you decide, but
tell me: What question am I really asking and how would you know?”

“我們全都問著同樣的一個問題，所以我知道。我們只是使用了不同的字眼。”


"All of us ask the same question, that is how I know. We just use different words."

“哦，那麼那個問題是什麼？”


"So, what then is the question?"


                                           2
“我是誰？” 她微聳著肩很快地回答了，好像那是顯而易見的。”


"Who am I?" she answered quickly with a slight shrug, as if it was obvious.

“而妳說妳會回答那個問題。所以，答案是什麼？”


"And you said you would answer that. So, what is the answer?"

婦女轉頭繼續走。她走了大約 20 呎，那男的大叫說，“所以答案是什麼 ﹗？”


The woman turned and walked on. She got about 20 feet down the path and the
man shouted, "So what's the answer!?"

她停下腳步，轉身，非常專注與和藹地看著那個男的。“你不會了解的。你只能
體驗到那些短暫的一瞥。宇宙的點頭示意。那些連結的感覺。相對真理的詞語。”
她微笑著說。“那就是你了解答案的方法。那是不完整並且是不成文的。那答案
的全部是被隱藏起來的。”


She stopped, turned and looked at the man with great care and kindness. "You can't
know. You can only know the glimpses. A nod from the universe. The feelings of
connection. The words of relative truth." She smiled. "That is how you know the
answer. It is incomplete and unwritten. The whole of it is tucked away."

“為什麼呢？”那男的問道。“為什麼它要對我們隱藏呢？”


"Why?" the man asked. "Why is it tucked away from us?"

“它不是一個要對你隱藏起來的秘密。它只是太巨大和太微小了，腦力沒有辦法
了解它。它棲據在所有一切裡面。它是如此的不一樣以至於我們的腦力無法進入
它的狀態。”


"It is not a secret that is kept from you. It is simply too large and too small for the
mind to know it. It inhabits all. It is so different that our minds would not be able to
pass into it.”

“它為什麼會如此的不一樣呢？”


"Why is it so different?"

                                            3
“因為如果它是一樣的，它就沒辦法創造出一個能讓你去經驗你自己的實相之主
權時空（sovereign spacetime）
                       。你是「個體、群體、和全體意識」的一個「實相
的透鏡」。”


"Because if it was the same, it would not be able to create a sovereign spacetime
that allows you to experience a reality that is your own. You are a reality lens for the
one, many and all consciousness."

年輕人閉了一下他的眼睛。“如果這個問題真的以我的腦力之最大限度被回答了，
我會快樂嗎？”


The young man closed his eyes for a moment. "And if this question is truly answered,
to the full limits of my mind, will I be happy?"

“如果我們了解了我們自己－－雖然只是模糊地－－就是「個體、群體、和全體
意識」，我們的快樂就被包含在之前、之後和當下的生命之冒險的範圍裡了。它
存在於「藉由人性來把意識有信心地表達出來」這個行動中。然而，快樂在我們
的世界裡仍是一種高高低低的波動。高點來自一種「互相連結感」，而低點來自
一種「分離感」。它們為了要獲得你的注意而競爭。我們的「互相連結感」或「分
離感」就是基本的二元性，從這種基本的二元性裡，所有其他的二元性才升起。”


"If we know ourselves – dimly as it may be – as the one, many and all consciousness,
our happiness is contained in the scope of the adventure that is life ahead, behind,
and now. It lives in the confident expression of consciousness through humanness.
Yet, happiness in our world remains a fluctuation of highs and lows. Highs from a
sense of


3


interconnection, and lows from a sense of separation. They compete for our
attention. Our sense of interconnectedness or separation is the fundamental duality
from which all other dualities arise."

“二元性就只是這兩件事嗎？”年輕人突然感到困惑。“只有互相連結和分離嗎？”


‚Duality is only two things?” the young man reflexed into sudden puzzlement.
“There’s only interconnectedness and separation?”

                                            4
睿智的女人豎起了兩根手指頭像是和平的手勢。“就這兩件事，不是嗎？這就是
二元性。”


The wise woman held up two fingers like a peace sign. “They are two things, are they
not? Thus, duality.”

“但妳說的是，每一個其他的二元性都是來自這兩個源頭？”


‚But you’re saying that every other duality comes from these two sources?”


“它們不是源頭，它們是我們選擇去相信之後的效果。我們不是相信互相連結，
就是相信分離。大部分的人會搖擺不定，兩邊都相信，而因此把兩邊都經驗和表
達出來了。”


‚They are not sources, they are effects of our choice to believe. We either believe in
interconnectedness, or we believe in separation. Most people vacillate, believing in
both, and therefore experiencing and expressing both.”

“但我們為什麼不能只選擇互相連結並且相信那樣就好呢？如果那會讓我們快樂
的話。”


‚But why can’t we simply choose interconnectedness and believe in that, if it makes
us happy?”

女人微笑著說，“你前面的路途蠻輕鬆的”。她以一種祝福的方式點點頭，轉身開
始走離開。


The woman smiled, “The way ahead of you is easier”. She nodded in the way of a
blessing, and turned and began to walk away.

年輕人不想失去與這位智者的聯繫，順著路向她跑過去。‚拜託，請等一下，我
還有其他問題。‛


The young man did not want to lose access to this wise person, and ran down the
road towards her. “Please, please stop for a moment, I have other questions.”

她沒有停。“那就跟我一起走吧。”

                                          5
She kept walking. “Then walk with me.”

年輕人看了一下路兩端的盡頭。她要去的地方，他剛剛才從那裡過來。他不想走
回去他的起點。“我陪妳再走一段，以便我可以再問一兩個問題。可以嗎？”


The young man looked down both ends of the road. Where she was going, he had
just been there. He didn’t want to walk back to where he had started. “I will walk
with you just so I can ask a question or two. Would that be okay?”

她點頭，年輕人就加快腳步來和她並肩走著。“你的第一個問題是什麼？”她問
道。


She nodded, and the young man picked up his pace in order to walk beside her.
“What is your first question?” She asked.

高山上稀薄的空氣讓年輕人得很用力才能回復他平穩的呼吸。


The thin mountain air had the young man struggling to regain his steady breath.

“為什麼我們不能只選擇互相連結就好了呢？”


‚Why don’t we simply choose interconnectedness?”


“因為分離的臨在就是人性的基石。倖存就是分離。倖存對任何族類來說都是基
本的，否則它就不會存在。我們全都被以這樣的觀念來教育著。一次一次又一次
地。每一天我們都會有意識地感受到這種情況，如果沒有幾千次，也有幾百次。
潛意識地，我們幾乎是不斷地在感受到這種情況。分離是一種既定結果的鏡片，
人類透過這種鏡片來凝視實相。如果要從分離切換成互相連結，我們就需要證明。
我們要看到「我們是互相連結的，不只是跟我們自己，人類，而是跟有著它自己
的形式和時空之所有的生命，以及宇宙中的其他世界，都是連結的」之證據與確
認。”


‚Because the presence of separation is the bedrock of humanness. Survival is
separation. Survival is fundamental to any species or it would not exist. We are all
educated in this. Over and over and over again. Consciously we sense this hundreds
if not thousands of moments each day. Subconsciously, we sense this almost
constantly. Separation is the default lens through which humanity peers into reality.

                                            6
In order to switch from separation to interconnectedness, we need proof. We want
to see evidence and confirmation that we are interconnected, not only with us,
humans, but all life in all its forms and spacetimes, and worlds within the universes.”

她自言自語地笑了笑，對自己的話語之浩瀚感到驚奇。


She chuckled to herself, marveling at the expanse of her words.

“為什麼我們會需要證明呢？”男人問道，瞇著眼睛，像是陷入了沉思。


‚Why do we need proof?” the man asked, his eyes squinting, as though they were
lost in a deep thought.


4

“因為我們活在分離裡，對我們來說，那是我們的家。如果有任何人要我們離開
家裡，就必須要有一個好理由。而證明就是那個好理由。”


‚Because we live in separation, and to us, that is home. If anyone wants us to leave
home it has to be for a good reason. And proof is the good reason.”

“但妳要如何證明所有的生命都是互相連結在一起的呢？”


‚But how do you prove that all life is interconnected?”


“而那是你的第三個問題。”女人理所當然地指出。


‚And that is your third question,” the woman rightly pointed out.


“知道啦…” 他說，臉上掛著微笑，而他同時也注意到了，他並不急著往回走。


‚Noted...” he said, with a smile, and he also noted that he was in no hurry to turn
around.

“腦力和心，” 她開始說，“在我們的世界裡是最高級的搭檔。在邏輯之火公平的
鍛造中互相支持著。沒有人須要去把腦力和心培養成搭檔。它們了解它們的基本
作用。然而，這個世界裡的分離感是如此的強烈，而使得這個顯而易見的邏輯思
維，變得不容易看透了。”

                                           7
‚The mind and heart,” she began, “are partners of the first degree in our world. One
supports the other in an equity forged from the fires of logic. No one has to educate
the mind and heart to be partners. They know their fundamental purpose. However,
separation is so strong in this world as to make this obvious logic, unobvious.”

“那麼，怎麼會在有些人的情況裡它是明顯的，而在其他人的情況裡它是不清楚
的呢？”


‚Then, how in some is it obvious and in others it is unobvious?”


“我們在做實驗。並不是說某些人還沒有找到它們的平衡，而是，他們寧可不平
衡。他們發現對他們的學習來講那是一個更富饒的區域，學習參與或學習表達，
而是的，那是一定有的，有些人迷失了。如我先前說過的，我們來這裡是為了要
進化，而就是藉由實驗，我們才能進化。這就是為什麼自由意志的幅度被與主權
實相（sovereign realities）混合在一起的原因。這樣我們才可以實驗。”


‚We are experimenting. It is not that some haven’t found their balance, it is that
they prefer imbalance. They find it to be a more fertile area of learning for them, of
engagement or expression, and yes, to be sure, some lose their way. As I said earlier,
we are here to evolve and it is through experimentation that we evolve. This is why
the latitude of free will was intermixed with sovereign realities. So we could
experiment.”

“那麼……證明是什麼呢？” 他試探性地問道。


‚...So what is the proof?” he asked, tentatively.


                             （但）當話語
“大多數的人認為他們是有靈性的因為他們信奉一本書和一個老師。
進入了公共領域時，它們會傾向於意圖的說明和渲染，然後就開始被束縛在分離
的基石上了。”


‚Most people believe they are spiritual because they adhere to a book and teacher.
When words come into the public sphere they are prone to interpretations and
embroidering of purpose, then they begin to tether into the bedrock of separation.”

“那麼，妳是在說，我們以為我們可以經由一種靈性或宗教的途徑來離開分離，
但那些途徑無可避免地又會把我們帶回分離。”

                                           8
‚So, you’re saying that we think we can leave separation through a spiritual or
religious path, but those inevitably lead us back to separation?”

“我已經忘記你問了幾個問題了，” 她說，“但我要提醒你，你每跟我走一步，離
你之前的目的地的距離就會越遠。”


‚I’ve lost track of the number of your questions,” she said, “but I will remind you
that each step you take with me, the distance grows from your previous destination.”

那男的揮了揮他的右手。“我知道，但我無法離開，當這樣的一些問題在我的腦
袋裡到處遊蕩時。請繼續吧。”


The man waved his right hand. “I understand, but I cannot leave when such
questions roam around in my head. Please, continue.”

“我們全都是那個「從實驗到進化」的運動的某個部分之參與者，不管我們是不
是知道。然而，證明 ” 她豎起食指強調，“卻沒有被找到，從來就沒有。在所有
人都看到它之前，沒有人會看到它。有些人會從一個未來的時間看到它的回聲和
混響。他們可以感覺到這種互相連結的實相並感受到它的臨在，但那不是證明。
它只是實驗和擴張的一個面向而已。沒有別的了。”


‚It is all a part of the experimentation-to-evolution movement that we are all
participants in, whether we know it or not. Proof, however,” she raised her index
finger for emphasis, “is not found. It never is. Until all see it, none see it. Some see its
echoes and reverberations from a future time. They can feel this reality of
interconnectedness and sense its presence, but it is not proof. It is a facet of
experimentation and expansion. Nothing more.”

“那科學呢？它不是有能力證明這個嗎？”


‚Then what of science? Isn’t it capable of proving this?”


“「能做某件事」和「完成某件事」是不一樣的。在一個對於我們的腦力來講是
「不可知的」的實相裡，能夠科學性地證明任何事，是一種悖論。科學僅只是在
周圍的黑暗中點開了一道光，而它的光束只往一個方向伸展。無論那道光有多麼
漫射，都不足以證明「某種如互相連結這種東西」和「分離」是不同的。”


                                             9
‚Being capable of something is not the same as achieving something. Being capable
of proving anything scientifically, in a reality that is unknowable to our minds, is a
paradox. Science merely points a light in the surrounding darkness, and its lightbeam
only extends in


5


one direction. No matter how diffuse that light is, it is not enough to prove
something as different from separation as interconnectedness is.”

“怎麼會呢？”


‚Then how?”


“因為「時空」的關係。”


‚Spacetime.”


“時空？”年輕的旅者問，懷疑他是否理解她的意思的甚至是一小部分。


‚Spacetime?” the young traveler asked, doubtful he understood even a fraction of
her meaning.

“每一種生命形式的實相都是不一樣的。你同意嗎。” 她問。


‚Reality is different for every life form. Do you agree?” she asked.


“我想是吧….”


‚I think so...”


“我就把那句話當作「是」了。” 她微笑著說。


‚I’ll take that as a yes.” She smiled.


“「時空」是在一個地方所經驗到的一個片刻。那個「實現或認識到」的片刻是
必然會發生的，因為那就是「我們是誰」。那個進化了的、完整的「個體、群體、
全體意識」，它不是在「時空」裡被創造出來的，它就是「我們是什麼」。「我們

                                           10
正在做的事」是，記住這個並且找到方法來把這個體現出來。而隨著我們所創造
出來的，我們的每一個體現，我們增加了「時空」的數量，進化了我們在其中的
那個源頭。那就是我們的證明：我們的那些體現，而不是發生在我們身上的那些
事，也不是你可以測量的那些事。”


‚Spacetime is a moment of time experienced in a place. The moment of realization
is inevitable, because that is who we are. That evolved, complete consciousness of
the one, many and all, it is not being invented within spacetime, it is what we are.
What we are doing is remembering this and finding ways to embody this. And with
each embodiment we create, we accelerate spacetime, evolving the source of which
we are therein. That is our proof: our embodiments, not the things that happen to us,
and not the things you can measure.”

年輕人停下來並且把它的鞋子脫掉。“對不起，我必需坐在那邊的大圓石上，把
我鞋子裡的鵝卵石拿出來，只要一下下。”


The young man stopped walking and pulled his shoe off. “I hope you will forgive me,
but I need to sit on that boulder over there and get this pebble out of my shoe. It’ll
only take a moment.”

那女人暫停並且點頭。“我等你。”


The woman paused and nodded. “I’ll wait.”

“這些體現是什麼呢？” 在他走向大圓石並且坐下來的時候，他問道。


‚What are these embodiments?” he asked, as he walked to the boulder and sat
down.

“它們是你藉由實驗而創造出來的東西。”


‚They are the things you create through experimentation.”


“但如果我不是科學家，藝術家，或工匠呢？”他把鞋帶綁緊，走回女人那裡。


‚What if I’m not a scientist, artist or craftsman?” He tied his shoe and walked back
to the woman.


                                          11
“眼神就是一種體現，‛她回答道。‚聲音的語氣是一種體現。放縱的愛就是一
種體現。手的細膩觸感就是一種體現。帶著痛苦的溫柔就是一種體現。我們所說
的話就是體現。這不是為任何特殊人才保留的。”


‚The look in an eye is an embodiment,” she replied. “The tone of a voice is an
embodiment. The ungoverned love is an embodiment. The delicate touch of a hand
is an embodiment. The gentleness with pain is an embodiment. The words we speak
are embodiments. This is not reserved for any special talent.”

                               。我也理
“所以，我模糊地知道「我是誰」了。我知道要如何變得更是「我是誰」
解了我為什麼要那樣做......” 他開始放慢腳步，似乎陷入了沉思，最後停了下來，
看著女人，女人此時已經停下來並且轉身。


‚So, I know vaguely who I am. I know how to become more of that. I understand
why I am willing to do that...” He began to slow down as though he were deep in
thought, and finally came to a stop and looked at the woman, who, by this time, had
stopped and turned.

“唯一還留在我的腦與心裡的問題是，我要如何把這個分享出去？”


‚The only question left in my mind and heart is how do I share this?”


“它會把它自己分享出去。” 女人微笑著，就像有人說出一個長久以來的秘密時
會做的那樣。


‚It shares itself.” The woman smiled like someone does when they tell a long-held
secret.

“怎麼做的呢？”


‚How?”


6

“你的那些體現，那些你在你的實相裡創造出來的東西，它們振動，而在這些振
動裡，它們分享。”

‚Your embodiments, the things you create in your reality, they vibrate, and in these

                                         12
vibrations, they share.”

“但它們分享什麼呢？” 他走得更靠近那女人。


‚But what do they share?” He walked closer to the woman.


“它們分享它們自己。”


“They share themselves.”

“妳已經說過了啊。”


‚But you already said that.”


“妳問了那個問題兩次，所以我回答兩次。”


“You asked the question twice, I answered twice.”

“好吧，妳說得對，”他說。“我們那些體現究竟是如何分享它們自己的呢？而那
樣又如何不是對於自由意志的一種違反呢？”


‚Okay, you’re right,” he said. “How exactly do our embodiments share themselves?
And how is that not a violation of free will?”

“自由意志延伸到個人，而不是到個人在其上演出他們的角色之舞台。那舞台是
一種活生生的、「來自動態宇宙、我們的行星、我們的地方、我們的時間、我們
的族類」之「振動的濃霧」。這就是，藉由它我們以「個體、群體和全體意識」
的一個「sovereign 表達」
                （或主權個體表達，a sovereign expression）之身分來實
驗而進化的，我們的舞台。貫穿所有「時空」的、我們族類的那些體現，都可以
被感受到，以及甚至是模糊地理解到。它們是共享的，但你還是有自由（意志）
可以去選擇那些和你起共鳴（振）的。那些你認為可以為你效勞的。”


‚Free will extends to the individual, not the stage upon which the individual plays
out their role. The stage is a living soup of vibrations from the dynamic universe, our
planet, our place, our time, our species. This is our stage through which we
experiment to evolve as a sovereign expression of the one, many and all
consciousness. The embodiments of our species throughout spacetime can be felt
and even vaguely understood. They are shared, and you remain free to choose which

                                           13
ones you resonate with. Which ones you believe can serve you.”

“妳說的是，我們可以感受和理解到那些未來的體現？因為妳說，貫穿所有「時
空」。”


‚Did you just say that we can sense and understand the embodiments of the future?
You said, throughout spacetime.”

她點頭。“當一個體現被創造出來了，它振動。這種振動是能量的一種形式。能
量會行進。它沒有受到限制。這是因為「時空」是一種場域。所有的點連結成那
個場域。今天做出來的一個體現，能夠影響昨天和明天。它沒有被封在時間裡，
而這是因為它是能量。”


She nodded. “When an embodiment is created it vibrates. This vibration is a form of
energy. Energy travels. It is not contained. And this is because spacetime is a field. All
points connect into that field. An embodiment made today can influence yesterday
and tomorrow. It is not contained in time, and this is because it is energy.”

那男的稍微抬起頭來。“妳是在說，如果我善意地看著一個陌生人，像是妳，那
個……那個……那個簡單的眼神就有能量，而那個能量不知怎麼的最終就會到達
一個互相連結的場域裡，而這個場域……跨越所有時間。你說的是這樣嗎？”


The man tilted his head slightly. “You’re saying that if I look kindly at a stranger, such
as yourself, that...that...that simple look has energy, and that energy somehow ends
up in a field of interconnectedness that...that spans all time. Is that what you’re
saying?”

“我們都是（能夠）創造能量的生命形式。是的，那正是我們在做的。”女人點了
點頭以示強調。“我們創造能量，然後把它存入那個「在其上所有的生命都是互
相連結的」之集體的場域。那怎麼會難以理解呢？這確實是科學啊。”


‚We are energy-creating life forms. Yes, that is precisely what we do.” The woman
bobbed her head for emphasis. “We create energy and deposit it into the collective
field upon which all life is interconnected. How is that difficult to understand? It is
indeed science.”

“如果那是真的，那我們的責任真的是太重大了，” 那男的評論說。


                                            14
‚That’s a terrible amount of responsibility we have, if that’s true,” the man
observed.

“我們把我們的基本信念帶入那個我們共享的場域裡。這些信念滲透到我們的每
一個體現。如果我們的基本信念是由「分離」而產生，那麼我們就是在滋養分離
的場。如果它們是因為「互相連結」而產生，那麼我們就會賦予「相互連結的場」
力量。真的就是這麼簡單，而回應你對於責任的評論，難道這不是一種榮幸，而
不是責任嗎？”


‚We bring our fundamental beliefs into the field we share. These beliefs permeate
our every embodiment. If our fundamental beliefs arise from separation, then we are
nurturing the field of separation. If they arise from interconnectedness, then we
empower the field of interconnectedness. It is truly this simple, and to your
comment about responsibility, isn’t this an honor, not a responsibility?”

“妳說一種榮幸是什麼意思？”


‚How do you mean an honor?”


“我們能夠創造出「不是與所有生命建立起互相連結，就是建立起一種更大的分
離感」之能量。被給予了這種選擇並且被允許在「時空」裡創造，是我們的榮幸。”
她伸出手來拍了一下那男的的肩膀。“我們都是「在我們所選擇的時空裡創製我
們可以銘記的生活」之工匠，還有什麼更好的東西是一個源頭可以提供給祂的創
造物的呢？”


‚We are in a position to create energy that either builds interconnection with all life,
or we build a greater sense of separation. We are honored by being given the choice,
and by being allowed to create within spacetime.” She reached out and touched the
shoulder of the man. “We are artisans who design our lives to remember in the
spacetime of our choosing. What greater honor could a source provide its creation?”

“好吧，我不確定妳所說的我是否全都懂了，但是，痛苦和受苦又要怎麼說呢？
一個人要如何才能把那些事情看作是一枚榮譽勳章，而不是殘酷宇宙的一種強迫
接受呢？”


‚Okay, I’m not sure if I follow all of that, but still, what about pain and suffering?
How can a person see those things as a badge of honor instead of an imposition by a
cruel universe?”

                                            15
女人指著晚上的星星。“第一顆星星實際上是一顆行星——金星。在那裡，你看
到了嗎？”


The woman pointed to the evening star. “The first star is actually a planet – Venus.
Do you see it there?”

那男的順著她伸出的手臂，瞇起眼。“幾乎看不到，但是，有了，我想我看到了。”


The man followed her outstretched arm, and squinted his eyes. “Barely, but, yes, I
think I do.”

            「看到」本身就是一個體現。分享是一種共振。目擊
“很好，能看到是一種榮幸。
則是永恆的。我們剛剛一起創造了能量，而那能量被固定在那個場域裡了。在未
來的某一個時間裡，那個能量將會被某個人或某個東西感受到。而在過去的某個
時間裡，某個人可能會懷疑，那第一顆星星是否是一顆行星。你明白嗎？”


‚Good, that is an honor to see. The seeing itself is an embodiment. The sharing is a
resonance. The sighting is forever. We just created energy together and that energy is
affixed to the field. And in some future time, that energy will be felt by someone or
something. In some past time, someone may wonder if that first star is really a planet.
Do you see?”

他搖著頭。“我不…”


He shook his head. “No...”

女的突然完全停下來。男的走到她身邊，雙手背在身後，期待地看著她。


The woman came to a full and sudden stop. The man joined her, looking at her
expectantly with his hands behind his back.

“在你裡面有一個世界。”她指著他的心。“你就是那個世界，它不是你周圍的世
界。你就是那個世界。那個世界是一個「所有一切互相貫穿的場域」之一部分。
而那所有一切就是進化中的我們。痛苦與受苦是分離的體現。它將會進入你的世
界，而當它進來的時候，你就要決定，是要邀請它進來，還是要禮貌地拒絕它的
影響並且創造出互相連結的體現來代替。你就是在你裡面的那個世界 並且也是
在你外面的那個世界。它們是同一個東西。”

                                          16
‚There is a world inside you.” She pointed at his heart. “You are that world, it is not
the world that surrounds you. You are that world. That world is a part of a field that
interpenetrates all. And that all is the evolving us. Pain and suffering is the
embodiment of separation. It will enter your world and when it does, you will decide
to invite it in or politely decline its effects and create embodiments of
interconnectedness instead. You are the world inside you and the world outside you.
They are one thing.”

兩人好像被同一個心智所控制似的，再次的往前走。“你知道的，我還是不瞭解
心和腦力作為搭檔這件事。一個人要怎麼做到呢？－－我是說，在它們之間要形
成一種合作關係。”


The two began walking again as if controlled by one mind. “You know, I still don’t
understand the heart and mind as partners. How does one do that – I mean, form a
partnership between them?”

那女的凝視前方，眼神堅定。“在你的世界裡，當心和腦力具有同等的價值時，
它們就會準確無誤地把你牽引到那些「有著一種振動，一種基調，一種感覺，一
種內在敏感性 來讓愛比任何其他結果都重要」的體現。我們做決定。心和腦力
是搭檔還是競爭對手？它們是搭檔 或兩個存在主義者，每個都有它自己的島嶼？
它們是搭檔也是競爭對手，視情況而定？”


The woman stared ahead, steely eyed. “When the heart and mind are of equal value
in your world, they unerringly draw you to the embodiments that have a vibration, a
tone, a feeling, an inner sensibility that makes love more important than any other
outcome. We decide. Are the heart and mind partners or competitors? Are they
partners or existentialists, each with their own island? Are they partners and
competitors, depending on the moment?”

那男的嗤笑了幾聲。 “如果我做決定，那麼我需要知道這是一件可以選擇的事。
否則的話，我沒有做決定，我只是盲目地按照我被告知的去做。”


The man scoffed a bit. “If I decide, then I need to know it’s an option. Otherwise, I’m
not deciding, I’m just blindly following what I am told to do.”

睿智的女人笑了笑，沒有說話。她輕輕地點了點頭。


                                           17
男人轉向在他遇見女人之前一直走往的方向。才幾步路而已，他的生命就改變了。
他看待事物的方式不同了，如此的不同，以致於他嚇到了。太陽正在落下，他們
走進了太陽裡，就在太陽開始落到陡峭的山崖下時。


The wise woman smiled and remained quiet. Her head nodded ever so slightly.


The man turned to the direction he had been walking before he had met the woman.
A few steps, and his life had changed. He saw things differently, so differently, it
scared him. The sun was setting and they were walking into it as it began to fall
below a rugged mountain crag.

“如果那全都是一個夢呢？”他突然問道。“也許根本沒有二元性。也沒有互相連
結。如果妳真的沒有證據，那麼它可能全都只是一個幻覺－－某種妳編造出來要
使得所有這種…這種機械式的混亂狀態看起來更可以接受的東西。”


‚What if it’s all a dream?” he suddenly asked. “Maybe there is no duality. No
interconnection. If you really don’t have proof, then it could all just be an illusion –
something you made up to make all of this...this mechanical mayhem seem more
acceptable.”

“就如我之前告訴過你的，只有一個二元性存在：互相連結 與 分離。如果一個
存在了，另一個也就存在。一個在，另一個就在。”


‚As I previously told you, there is only one duality: interconnectedness and
separation. If one exists, the other does, too. If there is one, there is the other.”

“也許我要說的是，兩個都是一種幻覺。”


‚Maybe I meant that both are an illusion.”


“在我們的語境裡，幻覺是一種錯誤的相信。而二元性既不是一種信念，也不是
錯誤的。我們都知道分離（譯註：separate 也是「不同的」之意）。我們知道每
一個人的實相都是不一樣的。那就是分離（separation）的本質。因此，在這個
實相裡它是一個事實。科學可以證明，我們對生命的體驗不同於宇宙中任何其他
的生命形式。如果這是真的，而這確實是真的，那麼我們也是互相連結的，因為
反面也必定是真的。”

‚In our context, an illusion is a false belief. And it is neither a belief nor is it false.

                                              18
We know separation. We know that everyone’s reality is different. That is the nature
of separation. Therefore, it is a fact in this reality. It is scientifically provable that we
experience life differently than any other life form in the universe. And if this is true,
and it is, then we are also interconnected, because the opposite must be true.

“而這種形式的邏輯永遠都會存在。一個人甚至不需要擁有情感性的共鳴也能看
見我們全都是互相連結的。那是純粹的邏輯。然而，腦力的邏輯，如果與「安頓
在你的心裡的那部分的你－－也就是‘個體、群體和全體意識’－－之情感性的
頻率」搭檔的話，那麼互相連結對於心和腦力來講就都是顯而易見的了。”


‚And this form of logic has always existed. One doesn’t even need to possess an
emotional chord to see that we are all interconnected. It is pure logic. However, the
logic of the mind, if it partners with the emotional frequency of the one, many and
all consciousness, that part of you that settles in the heart, then interconnectedness
is obvious to both the heart and mind.

“這就開始了（心和腦力的）搭檔關係。”


‚This begins the partnership.”


“但分離是很容易證明的。一個人只需要去…去…環顧一下四周就可以了。而比較
起來，只是環顧四周的話卻無法找到互相連結的狀態。”


‚But separation is easy to prove. One only needs to...to...just look around. The state
of interconnectedness, by comparison, is not found just by looking around.”

“ 啊…我們找到了。” 睿智的女人說。


‚Ah...there we found it.” The wise woman said.


“妳說什麼？”


‚What?”


“對於「你認為它不能被看到，或它躲起來、對你隱藏起來，或你還沒準備好，
或其他一百個你為什麼看不到我們的互相連結」的理由，我要和你分享一個秘
密。”


                                              19
‚That you think it cannot be seen or that it is hidden or kept from you or you’re
ill-prepared or a hundred other reasons as to why you can’t see our
interconnectedness. I will share a secret with you.”

那男的向那女的更靠近了一點。“那是什麼？”那男的低聲說。


The man leaned in a little closer towards the woman. “What?” he whispered.

“兩邊的呈現是相等的。”她傾身與男人保持對稱，眨了眨眼睛。“（要知覺到）
二元性。一邊需要身體的官能；另一邊需要想像力的官能。”


‚Both are present equally.” She leaned in for symmetry with the man, and winked
her eye. “Duality. One requires the senses of the body; the other the senses of
imagination.”

“想像力 ﹗？”男人聽到這句話後退縮了，這對他來講好像是不好的品味。


‚Imagination!?” The man recoiled at the word, as if it held a bad taste for him.


女人注視他時，他開始前後搖頭。她的眼睛閃耀著理解的光芒。


He began shaking his head back and forth while the woman watched. Her eyes
glistened in understanding.


9
“分離是科學而互相連結是……想像？” 他吼了出來，聲音比他預期的還要大。“妳
怎麼能期望人們會把他們的家從一個科學的世界搬到一個想像的世界呢？”


‚Separation is science and interconnectedness is...imagination?” He bellowed,
louder than he expected. “How can you expect people to move their homes from a
world of science to a world of imagination?”

女的對著她要去的方向點頭。“想像力就只是，順著我們的感覺進入到那「未知
的」裡面，偶爾，再尋找一下那扇能進入到「不可知的」的門戶。而科學則是，
抓住那些看得到的並且給它一個名字，一個關聯，以及一個作用。雖然科學使用
數學和每一種測量設備，但它是在建立一個我們的實相的目錄，在那個目錄裡我
們能找到一致並且從那個一致再去發展。但不要弄錯了，科學是「分離的科學」
                                  。”


                                          20
The woman nodded in the direction she wanted to go. “Imagination is simply feeling
our way into the unknown, and occasionally, looking for the door of the unknowable.
Science is apprehending the obvious and giving it a name, a relationship, and a
purpose. While science uses mathematics and measuring devices of every kind, it is
building a catalog of our reality that we can find agreement in, and evolve from that
agreement. But make no mistake, science is the science of separation.“

“所以，沒有互相連結的科學了嗎？二元性就瓦解了嗎？”


‚So, there is no science of interconnectedness? The duality breaks down?”


兩人又並肩走在一起。她指著在他們行進方向西邊低空的太陽。“你看到那個太
陽球體，而你可以用科學或用想像力來看它。科學會告訴你所有關於太陽的實際
情況。想像力則會告訴你所有關於「在你生命的這個當下太陽對你的意義」的事。
它會講述它的溫暖、它的橙黃色光線、它的滾滾周長，因為它符合我們大氣的密
度。沒有任何一種測量方法被我們的想像力所使用。沒有任何數字會掠過我們的
嘴唇或思想。”


The two people were walking side by side again. She pointed to the sun that was low
in the sky in the westerly direction they were traveling. “You see that solar orb, and
you can see it with either science or imagination. Science will tell you all the facts
about the sun. Imagination will tell you all about the meaning of the sun in your life
at this moment. It will tell of its warmth, its yellow-orange rays, its billowing girth as
it meets the density of our atmosphere. Not a single measurement is used by our
imagination. Not a single number will pass our lips or thoughts.”

“但科學是…真實的。而想像…它是主觀的。”


‚But science is...true. Imagination...it’s subjective.”


“啊，但對所有人來說是真的，對一個人來說卻不一定是真的。而對一個人來說
是真的，對所有人來說也不一定是真的。科學可以說明前者，而想像力可以說明
後者。也許在接下來的一百年內，科學可能可以證明那個場域的存在，所以我們
是互相連結的，而因此是一個存在，一個意識。它可能可以證明我們是一個「顯
化在時空中之進化中的意識」，被嵌入了對於我們的源頭的記憶，而以一個個體
的身分慢慢去理解到，我們就是那個源頭。”

‚Ah, but what is true for all, is not true for one. And what is true for one, is not true

                                            21
for all. Thus, science will explain the former, and imagination will explain the latter.
Perhaps in a hundred years, science may prove that the field exists, that we are
interconnected and therefore one being, one consciousness. It may prove that we
are an evolving consciousness manifest in spacetime embedded with a memory of
our source, slowly understanding, as one, that we are that source.”

她笑了笑，轉身對著他。“目前，科學並沒有在揭開「個體、群體和全體意識」
的帷幕。因此，有一個選擇被留給了我們。我們是要使用我們的想像力來感知它
呢？還是要留在分離的領域裡，全力投入書本中並且傾聽一個外面的老師？自由
意志…”


She smiled and turned to him. “Today, science is not pulling down the curtain of the
one, many and all consciousness. Thus, we are left with an option. Do we use our
imagination to sense it, or do we stay in the realm of separation, heads down on a
book and ears open to an outside teacher? Free will...”

她停下來，轉向另一邊，指著他們來的地方。“那條路在等著你。事實上，它在
召喚你。它吸引了你。你沒感覺到嗎？”


She stopped and turned the other way, pointing from where they had come. “That
way waits for you. In fact, it is beckoning you. It pulls on you. Don’t you sense it?”

“是的。”


‚...Yes.”


有很長的一段時間，兩個人只是看著落日。最後，把聲音帶入他們的世界的，是
那個男的。“關於 心和腦力的搭檔關係，還有個東西在拉扯著我，我不理解為什
麼……”


For a long period of time, the two people watched the sunset. Finally, it was the man
that brought sound to their world. “There is something about the heart-mind
partnership that tugs at me, but I don’t understand why...”

她微笑著說。“任何有著一個腦力和一個心的生命形式，如果他們的心和腦力沒
有形成合作關係，那麼他們是比較容易被分離的信念所影響的。他們的肉體，自
我意識，和潛意識會傾向於相信與跟隨 不是心就是腦力，而使得兩者之間的平
衡越來越脆弱。”

                                            22
She smiled. “If any life forms with a mind and a heart that are not in partnership,
then they are more susceptible to the belief in separation. Their body, ego and


10


subconscious will tend to believe and follow either the mind or the heart, making the
balance between the two ever more tenuous.”

“為什麼心和腦力是如此重要的一種合作關係呢？我想這就是我不理解的地方。”


‚Why is the heart and mind such an important partnership? I guess that's what I
don’t understand.”

“因為那是人類身體裡最基本的合作關係。我們以一個人類的身份活著，因此我
們就有一種責任要去把我們的心和腦力結合到一種目的上，來作為我們相信互相
連結的一種象徵。這種結合就是使得我們所創造出來的體現能夠攜帶一種互相連
結的振動之原因。而這種結合在我們成為人類之前就是基本的了。它不是被任何
人所擁有的。為了要把互相連結體現在時空裡，把一個人的心和腦力結合在一起，
將會是而且一直也都是一個 sovereign 要經驗的（a sovereign experience）。”


‚Because it is the most fundamental partnership within the human body. We live as
a human, therefore we have a responsibility to fuse our heart and mind onto a
purpose, as a symbol of our belief in interconnectedness. This fusion is what enables
the embodiments we create to carry a vibration of interconnectedness. And this
fusion is pre-human fundamental. It is not owned by anyone. It will be and always
has been, a sovereign experience to fuse one’s heart and mind for embodying
interconnectedness in spacetime.

“一個體現產生了，來自一個個人，帶著振動，” 她繼續說。“所有地方的所有東
西，都做著一件事：它振動。如果一個 sovereign 的心和腦力並不在一種合作關
係裡，那麼他們的體現的振動將會帶著分離。反過來，一個「已經被有目的地連
結在一起而理解了我們與生命的互相連結」之「心和腦力」，它的那些體現能攜
帶著「互相連結」。而這就是吸引我們去進化、擴張、更新和完善我們的理解的
吸引子。”


‚The embodiments that arise, from one individual, carry vibrations,” she continued.
“Everything, everywhere, does one thing: it vibrates. If a sovereign’s heart and mind

                                          23
are not in partnership, then the vibration of their embodiment will carry separation.
Conversely, a heart and mind that have been fused in purpose, to understand our
interconnection with life, those embodiments can carry interconnectedness. And this
is the attractor that pulls us to evolve and expand and renew and polish our
understanding.”

“我們要怎麼做到呢？”


‚How can we do it?”


“ 呼吸。”


‚The breath.”


“我不懂…”他輕聲地對自己說。


‚I don’t understand...” he said, quietly to himself.


“吸氣的時候，我們想像與所有生命的連結－－我們自己所能想像出來的最大的
生命。我們不可能超越我們的互相連結。（想像的時候）再怎麼誇張也不為過。
再怎麼巨大也不為過。”她對自己咯咯地笑了起來，就像一個人突然記起了某件
重要的事情時會做的那樣。


‚When we breathe in, we imagine interconnection with all life – life as large as we
can allow ourselves to imagine it. We cannot overreach our interconnection. We
cannot exaggerate it. We cannot make it too big.” She chuckled to herself as one
does when they suddenly remember something important.

“呼氣時去感覺我們的 sovereign 自己（our sovereign self）進入到我們想像的這些
生命形式和「時空」的裡面。它們流進了我們然後流出了我們，而這（行動）是
藉由我們的呼吸來完成的。”


‚When we breathe out we feel our sovereign self enter into these life forms and
spacetimes we imagine. They flow into us and they flow out of us, and this is done
through our breath.

“假設我們活到 80 歲，那麼我們就已經呼吸了 6.7 億次了。這些呼吸中的任何一
個，都會是進入到 對於互相連結的「體悟或實現」 之途徑。而一旦這種感覺在

                                          24
你的整個人性——身體、腦力、心、自我意識和潛意識——中被激起了，你就可
以把這種互相連結的感覺錨定在你的呼吸中了。”


‚If we live until we are 80 years old, we will have breathed about 670 million times.
Any one of these breaths could be a gateway into the realization of
interconnectedness. And once this feeling is stirred within your entire humanness –
body, mind, heart, ego, and subconscious – then you can anchor this feeling of
interconnectedness in your breath.

“我們的腦力是吸氣，而我們的心是呼氣。我們的呼吸就是籠罩著我們的一個臨
在。心和腦力的合作關係被維持在我們的呼吸裡。我們不用去想它。它是自動的。，
我們可以注意日常生活中某些特定的時機，來協助鞏固這個「心和腦力的合作關
係 與 相互連結」的隱喻，儘管如此，它是自動的。一旦我們的心和腦力在互相
連結的目的中結合了，我們的潛意識就可以執行這項操作。”


‚Our mind is the inbreath and our heart is the outbreath. Our breath is the one
presence that envelopes us. The partnership between the heart and mind is held in
our breath. We don’t have to think about it. It is automatic. We can be mindful at
certain points in our day to help solidify the metaphor of heart and mind partnership
and interconnectedness, nonetheless, it is automatic. Our subconscious can perform
this once our heart and mind are fused in the purpose of interconnectedness.

“現在你了解了嗎？”她問道。


‚Do you understand now?” she asked.


11

男的點點頭表示明白。“我好像了解了……出乎我的意料。它確實有道理。我看到
了一種藉由我的呼吸和我的體現來實踐它的方法。 我看到了這個角色的榮幸。‛
說話間，他越來越興奮的情緒愈發明顯。‚我甚至看到了我就是我的世界——從
內到外。以這種方式來思考它真的是一種解放。我是源頭和創造物。在 sovereign
源頭內的一個 sovereign，不斷在發展進化。現在我知道了！”


The man nodded his understanding. “I kind of do...to my surprise. It does make sense.
And I see a way to practice it through my breath and my embodiments. I see the
honor in this role.” As he spoke, his growing excitement became more obvious. “I
even see that I am my world – inside and out. It is actually liberating to think of it this

                                            25
way. That I am source and creation. An evolving sovereign within a sovereign source.
I understand now!”

她停了下來，再次指著東方。“那麼你可以回到你的旅程了。”


She stopped and pointed again to the east. “Then you can return to your journey.”

“如果我想要跟著妳呢？”


 “What if I wanted to stay with you?”

“那麼我會說，你是暫時迷惑了，”講到最後一個字的時候，她微笑起來了。


‚Then I would say that you are temporarily...confused,” she smiled, as she spoke the
last word.

“迷惑，怎麼說呢？”他問道。“很明顯的妳是一個好老師。以前我從沒聽過這些
話，而我是很認真學習的。真的很認真學習。”


‚Confused, in what way?” he asked. “You’re obviously a good teacher. I have not
heard these words before and I have studied. Truly studied.”

“那就改學習這個吧。”她指著他的心，然後他的頭，然後就走開了。“最後一個
問題，拜託，我保證，”他懇求著說。


‚Then study this instead.” She pointed to his heart, then his head, and walked away.
“One last question, please, I promise,” he pleaded.

她停下腳步並且轉身，豎起一根手指頭。“最後一個問題……”


She stopped and turned, holding up one finger. “One last question...”

“如果我做得不好會怎麼樣呢？我的那些創造物－－我的體現－－如果它們不是
如此的純潔或有靈性或……或不是那種正確的能量呢？”


‚What if I don’t bring honor to my role? My creations – my embodiments – what if
they’re not so pure or spiritual or...or the right kind of energy?”


                                            26
“我們的意圖是什麼？”她問道。


‚What is our intention?” she asked.


那男的靜下心來想了一下。“我們的意圖……我們的意圖就是要去擴展我們對於互
相連結的理解和實踐，”他回覆說。


The man looked inward for a moment, searching behind cobwebs. “Our
intention...our intention is to expand our understanding and practice of
interconnectedness,” he replied.

“那正是我們所需要的，我們只需要這個。” 她轉過身，然後停了下來，將目光
移回男的身上。“那能量被容納在意圖裡。意圖是體現的引領力量。體現會如何
顯化，它如何被評斷，它如何被接收，所有的那些事情，你都留在神秘裡，然後
繼續前進。”


‚That’s all we need.” She turned and then stopped, returning her gaze to the man.
“The energy is contained in the intention. The intention is the guiding force of the
embodiment. How the embodiment manifests, how it is judged, how it is received,
all of those things, you leave in the mystery and you move on.”

她暫停了一下。“就像我將要做的。我要繼續前進。” 她點頭微笑，而年輕人看
到那體現了。它被投射在金色的光芒中。也許那是最後的一縷陽光，但他很確定，
那光芒是來自她的裡面。


She paused. “Like I am about to do. I’m moving on.” She bobbed her head and smiled,
and the young man saw the embodiment. It was cast in a golden light. Maybe it was
the final rays of the sun, but he was quite sure that those rays came from inside her.

他往前走了一會兒，然後轉過來，看著她越變越小地走遠。終於，在越來越遠的
距離和飄揚的光線之間的某個地方，她消失了。


He walked for a while, and then turned around, watching her become smaller and
smaller as she walked away. Finally, somewhere between the growing distance and
the winnowing light, she disappeared.

男人抬頭看，對著剛剛才透露出它寶石般的秘密的天空低聲說了些什麼。他扣上
外套的釦子，走進夜色，哼著一首新曲子，這是他「回憶起的自己」的體現。

                                          27
The man looked up and whispered something to the sky that was just revealing its
jeweled secrets. He buttoned his coat, and walked away into the night, humming a
new tune that was an embodiment of his remembered self.


12




                                        28
