Underneath the Tree
      Underneath the Tree
                 E3 : S1




   Written in 2023 by James Mahu
 All artwork produced by James Mahu


    James Mahu 寫於2023年
所有的美術作品皆由James Mahu所創作


                MOCI.life
          SovereignIntegral.org
             WingMakers.com
             JamesMahu.com


   Free Audiobook available at MOCI.life




         English Version: 1.0
                         Copyright: Creative Commons




Creative Commons BY-NC-ND: This license allows reusers to copy and distribute the
material in any medium or format in unadapted form only, for noncommercial purposes
only, and only so long as attribution is given to the creator.



CC BY-NC-ND includes the following elements:


BY      — Credit must be given to the creator


NC      — Only noncommercial uses of the work are permitted


ND      — No derivatives or adaptations of the work are permitted




                             版權：知識共用
知識共用BY-NC-ND：本許可容許使用者在保證著作權歸屬作者前提下，
基於非商業目的且無篡改地以任何媒體及格式複製和分發該作品。


CC BY-NC-ND包括以下要素:


BY（署名）：署名必須歸於作者


NC（非商業用途）：只允許本作品的非商業用途


ND（禁止演繹）：不容許本作品的衍生品或改編
                  Underneath the Tree 樹下
                                       E3 : S1

                                  事 件 1：第 3 節
                                                                  中文翻譯整理：psiage


女人指了指不遠處的一棵大樹。‚我們走過去吧。我以前曾坐在那棵樹下。它幾乎
認識我了。‛儘管沒有光線，那男的還是聽得到她的微笑聲。


The woman motioned to a large tree a short distance away. “Let’s walk over there. I’ve sat
beneath that tree before. It practically knows me.” Despite the lack of light, the man could
hear her smile.


男的點了點頭，這兩個朋友就一起默默地走了一小段路。到達目的地後，女人靠著
樹幹坐了下來，男的則面對著她坐著。水壺就放在他們中間。


The man nodded, and the two friends walked the short distance together in silence.
Once they arrived the woman sat down, leaning against the trunk of the tree, while the
man sat facing her. The water jug was between them.


‚ 核 心 在 往內加深， ‛ 她 開 始 說 道 。 ‚ 它永遠朝著「未知」的方向移動。對 於
Sovereign 和 Sovereign 所依賴的「統一場」來說也是如此。「個體、群體、和全體意識」
並不是一個靜止的東西。它藉由時空來演化，而我們是這個演化的一部分。我們也在演
進，而即使是那些「陷入有致命危險之最強力的二元性裡」的人，他們也在演進 並且
為未來某個時期的狀況 提供給「統一場 」一種進化的洞察力。‛


“ The core deepens, ” she began. “ It moves forever in the direction of the unknown. And
this is as true for the Sovereign as it is the field of unity upon which the Sovereign
depends. The one, many and all consciousness is not a static thing. It evolves through
spacetime, and this evolution we are a part of. We are evolving too, and even those who
are caught in the most powerful duality of mortal peril, they are evolving and giving the
field of unity an evolutionary insight for some future time. ”


那男的歎了口氣，臉上流露出不是那麼含蓄的挫敗感。‚但歷史一次又一次地重演。
如果你需要證據，只需看看戰爭就知道了。難道我們就只能接受人類的愚蠢嗎？‛


The man sighed in a not-so-subtle display of frustration. “ But history repeats itself over
and over. Just look at wars if you need proof. Are we to just accept humanity’s stupidity? ”


"我們應該把個人的智慧運用到表層來，藉由我們的體現－－我們的那些創造－－
展現出互相連結。我們每一件事都這樣做，沒有例外。在我們的 致力於保持為「個
體、群體、和全體意識」裡的一顆粒子 之行動中，我們是完美無缺的。宇宙中的星
星有多少，我們做到這件事的方法就有多少。"


“We are to draw our personal wisdom to the surface, and through our embodiments —
our creations — we demonstrate interconnectedness. We make no exceptions. We are
impeccable in our commitment to align as a particle within the one, many and all
consciousness. This can be done in as many ways as there are stars in the universe. "


‚我們來這裡並不是要改變世界，我們來這裡是要表達出「個體、群體、和全體意識」。
世界的改變，那牽涉到全體，而在單一的一生中，改變似乎是如此的漸進，以至於感覺
不到它的存在。如果我們已經把我們的人性和我們的意識，我們的表層和我們的核心，
我們的腦力和心，都對齊了，那麼我們只需活得像我們本來所是的野生生物就好了。‛


“We are not here to change the world, we are here to express the one, many and all
consciousness. The changing of the world, that is Allness, and within a single lifetime it
would seem the changes are so gradual, as to be nonexistent. If we have aligned our
humanness and our consciousness, our surface and our core, our mind and heart, then
we have only to live as the wild creature that we are.”


"這聽起來很自私...... "那男的說。


“It sounds selfish...” the man said.


她搖了搖頭。"當一個人生活在「互相連結」中時，自私就不存在。我們只是作為
「互相連結」的一種表達而活著。至於要如何表達，那是一種無限的行動，不受任
何種類的言辭、數字或定義所限制。我使用的言辭不是我發明的。我並不是在不知
道其他數百萬人的心和腦力的話語之情況下，以特定的方式來安排這些言辭的。我
使用的每一個詞都發自我們每一個人。它是每個人在說話。它就是全體。它不是我。
"


She shook her head. “When one lives interconnected, there is no selfishness. We simply
live as an expression of interconnectedness. How that gets expressed, well, that’s an
infinite act that is unbounded by words or numbers or definitions of any kind. I didn’t
invent the words I use. I didn’t order them in a specific way without knowing the words
of millions of other hearts and minds. Every word I use is issued from each of us. It is
everyone speaking. It is Allness. It is not me.”


"所以，妳是在說妳已經失去了對自己的言行，或甚至是妳的想法的所有權了嗎？"
他說。‚如果妳失去了那些所有權，那麼妳要怎麼喜愛生活呢？‛


“So, you’re saying that you have lost ownership of your words and actions, perhaps even
your thoughts?” he observed. “If you’ve lost ownership then how do you enjoy life?”



‚再次地，「（我們的）本能」就是將事物極端化，然後選擇二元中的一方。但我
們可以兩者兼顧。我們可以在我們的經驗和表達中感受到 Sovereign 的一面（譯注：
即「個體」面），然後我們還可以同時理解到，我是指真正的理解，從我們的起源
開始，一直到我們命定的前途，我們都是互相連結的（譯注：即「整體」面）。我
們可以理解這兩種觀點是可以作為夥伴而共同存在的。‛


“Again, the instinct is to polarize and choose one side of the duality. We can do both. We
can feel the Sovereign side in our experience and expression, and we can simultaneously
understand, and I mean really understand, that we are interconnected all the way back
to our source and all the way forward to our destiny. We can understand that both of
these perspectives can cohabitate as partners.”


"如果你這樣做，就會讓你成為一個更好的人了嗎？"


“And does it make you a better person if you do?”


"即使是更好這個詞，也隱含著分離。"
“Even the word better, implies separation.”


"那妳是在說「不會」，還是在說......「那不重要」？我迷糊了。"


“Then you’re saying no, or...it doesn’t matter? I’m confused.”


‚我們是 Sovereigns，不是只有一次生命的時間而已，我們永遠都是。我們是那些
生生世世的合併。就像 Integral 是 「Sovereigns 的合併」一樣。一顆美麗鑽石的一
個面並非那顆鑽石，但那個面卻有著進入鑽石核心的視窗。我們必須從這裡開始。
一旦你以這種方式來定位你自己，你就會發現所有權是無法確定的。這就像試圖要
固定那一直在流動的風一樣。這個想法、創作或表達，最初是從哪裡冒出來的呢？
這個想法、創作或表達，在那個時空中是如何被解釋的？那個時空是發生在我們的
時空之前還是之後，或者也許是同時發生的？‛


“We are Sovereigns, not for one lifetime, but always. We are the amalgamation of
lifetimes. Just as the Integral is the amalgamation of Sovereigns. One facet of a beautiful
diamond is not the diamond, yet it carries a window into the diamond’s core. We must
begin there. Once you orient yourself in this way, then you can see that ownership is
impossible to pin down. It would be like trying to pin down the wind that is always
flowing. Where did this idea, creation or expression arise originally? How was it
explained in that spacetime? Is that spacetime happening before or after, or perhaps
simultaneously, with our spacetime?


‚有了這個基礎，然後我們就可以在「個別的一生」和「那一生的實相」中定位我
們自己。在那個實相中，我們是有著身體、腦力、心、自我意識、和潛意識 的人類。
在那個實相中我們可以經驗和表達我們的「互相連結」－－那種「被合一起來」的
感覺，那種「每一個生命對整體和對個體都是有價值的」的感覺，完全獨立於人類
的評斷之外。換句話說，我們可以兩者兼顧，而這才是重點。‛


“With that foundation, we can then orient ourselves to the individual lifetime and its
reality. In that reality, we are human with a body, mind, heart, ego and subconscious. In
that reality we can experience and express our interconnectedness — that feeling of
being unified, each life valuable to the whole and to the individual, quite independent of
human judgment. In other words, we can do both, and that is the point.”


那男的往後一靠，用雙手撐著自己。‚之前，當妳說到 Sovereign 時，我認為妳說
的是…我。我就是 Sovereign，但就在剛才，我看到一個新的定義出現了。是為我的
那個 Sovereign，是在時空二元性裡之 我的「所有我」 的合併。以某些方式來講，
我已經從時空的第一個奈米秒活到現在，而當「時空」折入（譯注：或「還原到」）
「非-時空」，而我們命定地要以「個體、群體、和全體意識」的身份存在於所有一
切裡時，我也會在場。我有正確地理解妳所說的了嗎？‛


The man leaned back, propping himself up with his arms. “When you said Sovereign
earlier I thought you meant...me. I’m the Sovereign, but just there, I saw a new definition
arise. The Sovereign that is me, is the amalgamation of all of my “me’s”in spacetime
duality. And in some ways, I have lived from the very first nanosecond of spacetime to
right now, and when spacetime folds into non-spacetime, and our destiny as the one,
many and all consciousness lives in all, I will be there, too. Do I understand you correctly?”


‚是的，但我還要補充的是，「全體」的命運就是「個體」的命運，以同樣的方式，
「個體」的創造就是「全體」的創造。而這種流動和運動是碎形化的。它在時空二
元性的所有層面上運作。如果腦力和心不是相互連結的夥伴，那麼這種規模是無法
想像的。然而，一旦這規模被清晰地想像出來了，它就會像一個逐漸流入你的生活
的引導系統。你就會開始看到它對於你的實相中的所有事物的照料和處理。‛


“Yes, and I would add that the Destiny of All is the Destiny of One, in the same way that
the creation of One is the creation of All. And this flow and movement is fractal. It
operates on all levels of spacetime duality. The scope cannot be imagined by a mind and
heart that are not partners for interconnectedness. However, once the scope is clearly
imagined, it is like a guidance system that gradually flows into your life. You begin to see
its care and handling of all things in your reality.”


那男的低頭看著自己的雙手，嘴裡喃喃自語，聽不清在說些什麼。"我們又回到了
心與腦力之間的夥伴關係了。為什麼？為什麼這種情況會不斷地出現呢？"


The man looked down at his hands, murmuring something inaudible. “Again, we are back
to the partnership between our heart and mind. Why? Why does that keep coming up?”
那女的觸摸了她頭部側面的太陽穴。"我們的科學家告訴我們，我們的大腦大約有
860 億個神經元，我們的腸道大約有 5 億個神經元，我們的胃大約有 1 億個神經元，
我們的心臟大約有 4 萬個神經元。我們大腦擁有的神經元數量是心臟的 210 萬倍。
我們的大腦在我們的人性中占主導地位。然而，我們的感覺中樞，是由心臟、腸道
和胃部組成的，這個感覺中樞與我們的大腦進行著神經和能量上的交流。"


The woman touched the temple on the side of her head. “Our scientists have told us that
our brains have about 86 billion neurons, our gut has about 500 million, our stomachs
about 100 million, and our hearts about 40 thousand. Our brain has 2.1 million times the
number of neurons than our heart. Our brain is dominant in our humanness. Yet, our
feeling center, consisting of our heart, gut, and stomach area, this feeling center
communicates with our brain, neurologically and energetically.


"我們的意識和腦力之間的交流，我們的腦力和大腦之間的交流，我們的大腦和心
之間的交流，我們的心和意識之間的交流；這些動作就像是交響樂的樂章一樣地在
進行著，可以是和諧的、不和諧的或兩者兼而有之地流動著，並且朝所有的方向前
進。當我們與這些運動和諧一致時，我們就會傳遞出「相互連結」。它就是這麼簡
單。"


“Our communication between our consciousness and mind, and our mind and brain, and
our brain and heart, and our heart and consciousness; these are like symphonic
movements that can flow in harmony, disharmony or both and in all directions. When we
are in harmony with these movements we transmit interconnectedness. It is as simple as
that.”


"如果我們明白了這一點，"那男的說，"為什麼我們還會回去傳遞分離與不和諧呢？
"


“And if we understand that,” the man said, “why would we want to ever return to
transmitting separation and disharmony?”


"因為「全體」，那個我們所有的人都是的「整體」，在時空二元性中以平衡的步
伐移動。它像手風琴的風箱一樣地拉長。在那裡，我們擁有自由意志。我們做決定。
也許我們與「全體」的聯繫正在敦促我們扮演一種分離的角色，以防止我們太快走
向我們的命運。我們希望不要跌倒（譯注：依據本文後面的內容，走太快就可能跌
倒）。從我們最高的心和腦力那裡，我們潛意識地感受到這些事情。而我們傾聽。
"


“Because Allness, the integral that we all are, moves at the pace of balance in spacetime
duality. It is drawn out like the bellows of an accordion. And there we possess free will.
We decide. Maybe our connection to Allness is urging us to play a role of separation to
keep us from moving too quickly towards our destiny. We desire to avert a fall. We sense
these things subconsciously, from our highest heart and mind. And we listen. ”


“要理解「互相連結」，這就是它的一部分。它不僅僅是一種社會結構或一個因其
表面吸引力而被拋來拋去的新時代概念。它是基本的概念，正因為如此，它的深度
和廣度都是廣闊的。你可以花一整輩子的時間來探索它的深處，卻永遠找不到它的
地板……或天花板，或甚至是一道牆。”


“This is part of understanding interconnectedness. It is not just a social construct or a
New Age concept tossed around for its surface appeal. It is the fundamental concept,
and because it is, its depth and breadth are expansive. You can spend an entire life
plumbing its depths and never find its floor...or ceiling or even a wall.”


"但那需要時間，"那男的說。"似乎沒有人有足夠的時間，可能也沒有人有足夠的意
願去思考這個問題。"


“But that takes time,” the man said. “No one seems to have enough time, and probably
inclination to think about this.”


“這正是為什麼有些存在體會化身為人，來將這些觀念編碼成文字、圖像或聲音的原因。
這讓我們任何人都能在短時間內體驗到分離中的相互連結。不是試圖要放棄分離以利互
相連結，而是要將分離整合。將分離視為我們在「個體、群體、和全體意識」中的全體
性之一部分。”


“And that is precisely why some incarnate to codify these ideas into words or images or
sounds. To make it possible, in a short period of time, for any of us to experience
interconnectedness within separation. Not to try and leave separation in favor of
interconnectedness, but to integrate it. To see it as part of our Allness in the one, many
and all consciousness.”


那男的遞給她另一杯水。他聽得出她的聲音有些疲憊。


The man offered her another drink of water. He could hear her voice straining.


喝完水後，她仰望著星光璀璨的夜空和一輪彎月。‚我們已經從注視夜空來提醒自
己我們自己的浩瀚以及我們存在於其中的那個浩瀚，轉向科技的螢幕，來提醒自己
我們的世界是多麼渺小。這種差異是顯著的。而科技只會變得更加普遍和具侵略
性。‛


After she finished drinking, she stared up at the sky so full of stars and a crescent
moon. “We have transitioned to looking at the night sky to remind ourselves of our
vastness and the vastness in which we live, to the screen of technology to remind
ourselves of how small our world is. This difference is notable. And technology will only
become more pervasive and invasive. ”


‚為了與科技共存，我們需要尊重它。科技可以引導我們走向互相連結，就像它也
很容易可以創造出那些分離的世界一樣，把我們聚集成數據的群體，培養我們的興
趣以滋養經濟。在時空二元性中，這兩者都有可能，而這兩者的發生是因為我們共
同決定的。‛


“For us to live with technology, we will need to respect it. Technology can guide us to
interconnectedness, as easily as it can create worlds of separation, gathering us into
cohorts of data, and cultivating our interests to feed economies. In spacetime duality, it
is both and it is both because we collectively decree it.”


那男的喝了一口水，目光掃過女人。


The mantook asip of water, his eyes darting around the woman.


‚妳的水壺在哪裡？‛ 他突然問。
“Where is your water jug?” he suddenly asked.
‚我沒帶。‛


“I didn’t bring one.”


“那妳怎麼攜帶水？”


“How will you take water with you?”


“我將它存在自己體內，” 她微笑著說。


“I carry it inside me,” she smiled.


他拿出了自己的。“來，用我的吧。我去村子裡再找一個。”


He held out his own. “Here, have mine. I’ll get another one in the village.”


“不用了，謝謝。我這樣就可以。”


“No, thank you. I’m fine.”


他把水壺放下，注視著她的眼睛。"如果我是一個sovereign，那個核心，那個貫穿所
有經驗和表達而存在的生物，如果我就是那個東西，也是有著一次生命的人類個體，
我怎麼......我怎麼能理解這些呢？"


He set the jug down and looked in her eyes. “If I’m a sovereign, the core, the creature
that lives through all experience and expression, if I am that and a human individual of
one lifetime, how can I…how can I understand this?”


她張開雙臂，仿佛在拉開一條線。"這就是sovereign。"她解釋道，然後她開始用右
手劈開她剛剛劃出的假想線（成一段段）。"而這些的每一段都是一次生命。"


Her arms spread out, as if she was pulling wide a piece of thread. “That is the sovereign,”
she explained, and then she began to chop her right hand across the imaginary line she
had just made. “And each of these is a lifetime.”


然後，她將手伸進假想的線中，用食指和拇指拉出一個假想的人，放在假想的線上
方。"你是一生一世。sovereign不是一生一世，而是所有生生世世的混合體。它是連
接不同生生世世之間的「合一的線」。這就是 sovereign 的全體性。而因為每一件
事物都是這樣，所以就有一種全體性使得我們能夠互相連結地存在著，無論我們知
道與否。”


Then she reached into the imaginary line and pulled an imaginary person holding it
above the line with her forefinger and thumb. “You are one lifetime. The sovereign is not
one lifetime, it is the amalgamation of all lifetimes. It is the thread of unity between
lifetimes. And that is the Allness of the sovereign. And because each thing is this, there is
an Allness that enables us to live interconnectedly, whether we know it or not.”


她湊過來低聲說道。"但如果我們知道它，我們就能在生活中的每一個單一片刻裡
的那些細節中看到互相連結。我們看到它。我們驚歎於它，我們為之歡笑。我們全
心全意地愛它。這是我們對全體性的存在的獨特認知。有人稱之為巧合、同步、神
奇、宇宙、宇宙在微笑、事件串（事件之弦）或命運。無論你怎麼想，你都會看到
這些文字出現，你也會考慮它們對你這一生的價值。"


She leaned in with a whisper. “But if we know it, we see the interconnection in our life
down to the details of every single moment. We see it. We marvel at it. We laugh at it.
We love it with all of our hearts. It is the singular recognition that Allness exists. Some
call this coincidence or synchronicity or magical or cosmic or the universe smiling or an
event string or destiny. In whatever way you think about it, you came upon these words
and you are considering their value to your one lifetime. ”


"我要說的是，它們不是為了一次生命，它們是為了sovereign。我們所做的一切，經
由我們所體現的一切，都是為了那經由我們而流動的sovereign，都是在對「我們的
整體」致敬。我們體現了一次生命，但我們也體現了「無限」，而這正是大多數人
已經遺忘了的。「無限」和「有限」有著一種夥伴關係，就好像它正租用了一個身
體、腦力、心、自我和潛意識來活在這個時空中，體驗和表達「互相連結」或「分
離」，或是，而這很重要，兩者的夥伴關係。"
“And what I am saying is that they are not for one lifetime, they are for the sovereign.
And everything we make, every embodiment that comes through us, is for the sovereign
that flows through us, honoring that whole of us. We embody a lifetime, but we also
embody the infinite, and this is precisely what most people have forgotten. The infinite
has a partnership with the finite, as if it is leasing a body, mind, heart, ego and
subconscious to live in this spacetime and experience and express either
interconnectedness or separation, or, and this is important, both in partnership.”


"夥伴關係？"那男的問。"你如何把這些如此基本而對立的元素，變成一種夥伴關係
呢？"


“Partnership?” the man asked. “How do you bring these opposing elements, as
fundamental as they are, into a partnership?”


她能從他的語氣中感受到他的懷疑，她記得自己也曾有過同樣的語氣，於是她選擇
微笑以示認可。"就像我們對待任何二元性一樣，我們不評判。如果我們不評判，
我們就會形成一種夥伴關係，而如果我們形成了一種夥伴關係，我們就不會評判。
我們不去評判，而是去尋找互相連結的信號。我們尋找那些我們的sovereign與我們
－－人類自己－－溝通的方式。"


She could sense his skepticism in his tone, and she remembered the same tone in her
own voice at one time, and chose to smile at her recognition. “The same way we do with
any duality, we do not judge. If we do not judge, we form a partnership, and if we form a
partnership we do not judge. Instead of judging, we look for the signals of
interconnectedness. We look for the ways that our sovereign is communicating with
us — the human self.”


“所以，妳的意思是，有這麼一個「看不見的意識」存在於許多，許多生生世世中，而
這才是我們真正所是的，其他的每一個人也都有這種相同的「看不見的意識」，就是因
為這樣，我們彼此才是互相連結的嗎？而「那個意識」就是妳所說的「個體，群體和全
體意識」。對吧？”


“So, you’re saying,” the man said, “that there is this invisible consciousness that lives in
many, many lifetimes and it is who we really are, and everyone else also has this same
invisible consciousness, and it’s at that point that we are all interconnected? And it’s that
consciousness that you call the one, many and all. Is that right?”


“是的，這就是我要說的。我們被賦予了選擇的權利，去實驗我們如何把對於互相連結
的理解帶到這個世界來，或者如何從分離的角度來生活。我們是一個「有著身體、腦力、
心、自我和潛意識的一次有限生命」的意識，或者我們體現了「我們的無限 的一顆粒
子」，是我們所創造出來的整體的一部分。”


“Yes, that is what I’m saying. We are given the choice to experiment how we bring the
understanding of interconnectedness to this world, or how we live from a perspective of
separation. That we are a consciousness of one, finite lifetime with a body, mind, heart,
ego and subconscious, or we embody a particle of the infinite that is ours. A part of the
whole that we have created.


“然而，如果我們把自己看作是一個 sovereign——那條‘把它自己織入在所有的生生世
世裡，但又保持著一種一體感的’「合一的線」，我們就能夠以一個「在時空二元性中
體現了“個體，群體和全體意識” 的」Sovereign Integral 的身份而活著了。雖然不完美，
但是對我們的基本合一性是保持對齊和覺察的。”


“However, if we see ourselves as a sovereign — that thread of unity that weaves itself
through all lifetimes, and yet maintains a sense of oneness, we can live as a Sovereign
Integral who embodies the one, many and all consciousness in spacetime duality.
Imperfectly, yet aligned and aware of our fundamental unity.”


“為什麼不完美？” 他問道。


“Why imperfectly?” he asked.


"因為二元性產生評判，而評判產生二元性。它們是自我強化的，並因此迅速發展。
在地球上，我們處於時空二元性的濃霧中，所以我們會評判自己和我們的那些體現，
也就是我們所創造的事物。我們的表達會不完美。但在互相連結中沒有評判。這是
在我們的核心與表層；我們的 sovereign 與 人類自己 之間要形成夥伴關係的唯一途
徑。我們必須放下評判，但保有「不加評判地透過這種夥伴關係的透鏡來解讀我們
的實相」之能力。”


“Because duality creates judgment, and judgment creates duality. They are self-
reinforcing, and evolve rapidly as a result. On earth, we are in the soup of spacetime
duality, so we will judge ourselves and our embodiments, the things we create. We will
be imperfect in our expressions. There is no judgment within interconnectedness. It is
the only way to form a partnership between our core and surface; our sovereign and
human self. We must drop judgment, yet retain our ability to read our reality through
the lens of this partnership without judgment.”


“那麼，這種夥伴關係需要有什麼條件？”


“So, what does the partnership require?”


“一種願意，不，更像是一種勇氣，去以「一次生命的一個不一樣的人類之身份」而活
著，並且經驗它（譯注：《道德經》我獨異於人而貴食母；活在這個世界但又不屬於這
個世界）
   。領悟到你同時是兩者（既是 sovereign 也是人類自己）也不會有問題。你不
受別人或別的時空的言語所限制。（因為）即使是這種領悟以及它的體現，都可能會被
一些人視為是極端的價值觀，他們可能會認為這是放棄他們所堅持的至關重要的事物。
就像一個士兵扔掉了自己的盾牌一樣。”


“A willingness, no, more like a courage to live as a separate human being of one lifetime
and experience that. To be okay in the realization that you are both. That you are not
confined by the words of another person or another spacetime. Even this realization and
its embodiments can be seen as polarizing values by some who may see them as a
relinquishment of what they hold onto as vital. It would be like a soldier who flings their
shield away. ”


“那就是他們（上述那些人）接受的角色。一個角色沒有好壞之分，它（那角色）是至
關重要的，否則它就不會存在。它是平衡的一部分，而那種平衡使我們這個物種朝著互
相連結的方向發展，即使看起來它似乎正在滑向更大的分離。”


“That is the role they accepted. One role is not better or worse, it is vital, or it would not
exist. It is part of the balance that moves our species in the direction of
interconnectedness, even when it seems to be slipping into greater separation. ”


"這些話（譯注：前文要有勇氣去做…的那些話）在我們的腦力和心裡被發現的這
一事實，表明了我們正在朝著那個方向前進。這些話僅僅是那些 理解了「我們 在
自己裡面 和 與外面的所有其他人 都是互相連結的」的人 的一種體現。而是的，在
你提問之前，這已經轉化為行動，轉化為行為。行為只是感知的反映。我們如何感
知實相會影響我們的行為，而我們的行為又會直接影響我們的實相。"


“The fact that these words are found within our mind and heart is a demonstration that
we are moving in that direction. This is merely an embodiment from those who
understand that we are interconnected within ourselves and all others. And, yes, before
you ask the question, this translates into action, into behavior. Behavior is only a
reflection of perception. How we perceive our reality influences our behavior, and that
directly influences our reality. ”


"因此，如果我們在我們的實相中感知到互相連結了，我們的行為和體現就會反映
出這一點。「個體、群體、和全體意識」發散，不是為了改變任何東西，不是為了
使任何人改變信仰，也不是為了轉移任何人的注意力。它只是在展示全體、整體以
及我們所共用的互相連結。在這樣做的過程中，它（也）明白分離會擴大以提供一
種平衡，而這全都是合一和全體的一部分。"


“Thus, if we perceive interconnectedness within our reality, our behavior and
embodiments will reflect this. The one, many and all consciousness emanates, not to
change anything, not to convert anyone, not to divert anyone. It simply demonstrates
Allness, the integral, and the interconnectedness that we all share. And in doing so, it
understands that separation will widen to provide a balance, and this is all part of unity
and Allness.”


那男的開始用手指敲擊他手中的水壺。他的躁動是他的身體語言。有什麼東西在困
擾著他。"那麼我就得過著雙重生活。我必須同時是互相連結的又是分離的。而且，
我必須以某種方式讓自己在這一切中保持理智。怎麼保持？我明白為什麼，我也覺
得有道理，但我該怎麼做呢？這部分，儘管我努力想去瞭解，但就是無法......"


The man began tapping with his fingers on the water jug he was holding. His fidgeting
was the language of his body. Something was bothering him. “Then I have to live a
double life. I have to be interconnected and separate at the same time. And somehow, I
have to keep myself sane in all of this. How? I understand why, and it does make sense
to me, but how do I do it? That part, as hard as I try to see it, I just don’t…”


他的手指停了下來，樹下的空間又恢復了寂靜。在遠處，他們可以聽到其他旅人在
井邊取水，他們的聲音中充滿了寬慰。


His fingers stopped and the silence returned to their space beneath the tree. In the far
distance they could hear other travelers at the well, finding their water. Relief
resounding in their voices.


"當你學習任何東西時，最基本的前提是什麼？"她問。


“When you learn anything, what is the fundamental premise?” she asked.


‚需要時間和練習（或實踐）。‛


“That it takes time and practice.”


‚如果你對一件新事物付出時間和練習，你會學會如何做嗎？‛


“And if you give a new thing time and practice, do you learn how to do it?”


"......是的，通常會。"


“...Yes, usually.”


"你的天賦到哪裡，你就學到哪裡，那天賦是什麼呢？" 她問道。


“To the extent of your talents, you learn, and what is a talent?” she inquired.


"那是一份禮物……嗯，我不知道。 我總是被告知，一個人在這方面或那方面擁有
天賦是上帝的恩賜。"
“It is a gift…um, I don’t know. I was always told that it was a gift from God that one
person had a talent in this or that.”


"天賦，正如我們被教導的那樣，是與信念融合在一起的感知，然後，在時間和練
習的透鏡下，其結果開始展現。它們召喚著更多的時間和練習。它們甚至能把你拉
入「未知」，那些別人從未涉足的領域。一個只有你才能去的地方。這就是天賦！
你冒險進入未知的領域，擴展某一既有學科的實相，如演戲、繪畫、表演、寫作、
愛、歌唱或只是單純的生活。你藉由天賦拓展這些領域。在整個宇宙中，沒有人確
切地知道你的天賦將引領你走向何方，也沒有人知道它是如何出現的。在你的實相
和時空中去理解和擴展互相連結這個學科，是你自己的事情。"


“Talent, as we are taught, is perception that merges with belief, and then, under the lens
of time and practice, its results begin to unfold. They beckon for more time and practice.
They can even pull you into the unknown, where no one else has ventured. A place
where only you can go. That is talent! You venture into the unknown and you expand the
reality of a given discipline like acting or painting or performing or writing or loving or
singing or simply living. You expand these through talent. No one in this entire universe
understands exactly where your talent will lead or how it emerges. It is yours to
understand and expand the discipline of interconnectedness in your reality and
spacetime.”


她停頓了片刻，研究著自己那雙幾乎消失在越來越濃的黑暗中的手。"你如何做到
這一點...... 當你在「互相連結」和「分離」的體驗與表達之間移動時保持心智清醒，
是你獨一無二的天賦。你的天賦就是做這件事的藝術。這是一件我們都在做的事，
每一隻昆蟲、每一棵植物、每一隻動物、每一個人，在時空二元性中的所有地方的
每一個生命。"


She paused for a moment, studying her hands that had almost disappeared in the
growing darkness. “How you do this…keeping your sanity as you move between the
experience and expression of interconnectedness and separation, is your unique talent.
Your talent is the art of doing this. This one thing that we are all doing, every insect,
every plant, every animal, every human, every life everywhere within spacetime duality. ”
"其他的一切，你在這個世界上掌握的每一種技能、成就、造詣、優勢，都是你與
一門學科產生的共鳴，它可能來自你的身體、你的思想、你的心，也可能來自平行
的一生。誰知道呢？這些都會激發你的熱情。而只要你有熱情，你就會撥出時間來
練習。"


“Everything else, every skill, achievement, accomplishment, superiority that you wield in
this world, those are resonances you have with a discipline, which could come from your
physicality, your mind, your heart, a parallel lifetime. Who knows? And these develop
your passion. Where you have passion you will allocate time and practice. ”


"然而，不要把共鳴和天賦混淆了。它們是兩碼事。我們的天賦是知道如何平衡這
種基本的二元性－－互相連結與分離，在我們的實相中。不是別人的。是我們的實
相。"


“However, do not confuse resonance with talent. They are two different things. Our
talent is to know how to balance this fundamental duality — interconnectedness and
separation — in our reality. Not someone else's. Our reality.”


那男的又開始用手指敲擊。 ‚這種天賦是從哪裡來的？‛


The manstarted his drumming again with his fingers. “Where does this talent come
from?”


"你已經擁有了。你已經在做了。天賦是因人而不同的。它無法被評判。每一個人、
每一件事都有一種天賦，能讓它們在分離和互相連結之間找到平衡。這種平衡在哪
裡被找到，以及它如何表現出來，這就是我們的獨特之處，也是我們對整體的貢獻
之價值所在。"


“You already have it. You’re already doing it. A talent is personal. It cannot be judged.
Everyone and everything has a talent that allows them to find a balance between
separation and interconnectedness. Where this balance is found and how it expresses
itself is what makes us unique and our contribution valuable to the whole.”


"所以......所以，妳是說，"那男的說，"我們每個人都有一種天賦，這種天賦就是如
何在這兩種存在狀態－－分離和互相連結－－之間流動，就像我們在我們的實相的
時空中所選擇的那樣。我們每個人都能找到一種平衡，而那就是我們的天賦。我的
理解對嗎？"


“So…so, you’re saying,” the man said, “that all of us have one talent, and that talent is
how to flow between these two states of being — separation and interconnectedness —
as we choose in the spacetime of our reality. Each of us can find a balance, and that is
our talent. Do I have it right?”


"在某種層面上，是的。"


“At one level, yes.”


“那麼妳是在說，我們的天賦就是我們的生活方式。 就這樣。 那就是我們的天賦？ 一個
無家可歸的退伍軍人，在街頭乞討，也有生存的天賦嗎？”


“Then you’re saying that our talent is how we live. That’s all. That’s our talent? A
homeless war veteran, begging on the streets, has a talent to live?”


"你在談論的是 分離的輸贏倖存遊戲。"她說。


“There you are talking about the win-lose survival game of separation,” she said.


"而不是天賦。所有的體現，無論它們是否有感覺力，都有一個共同點：它們都有
一種天賦，那就是在分離和互相連結的基本二元性之間為自己的物種找到一種平衡，
而一旦這種平衡被掌握住了，那麼在任何地方的整個物種，都會更容易掌握住這種
平衡。這種平衡是無限獨特的。它從來沒有被以同樣的方式達成過。"


“Not talent. All embodiments, whether they are sentient or not, have one thing in
common: They have a talent to find a balance between the fundamental duality of
separation and interconnectedness for its species, and once it is held, then it will be
easier for it to be held everywhere within all species. This balance is infinitely unique. It
has never been struck in the same way before. ”
"實際上，每一刻，這種平衡都在變化。對於「個體、群體和全體」來說，它是永
遠獨一無二的。這就是「個體、群體和全體意識」的部分含義。我們在所有地方和
所有時間的所有層面上都共同參與其中。如果你能想像這一點，你就能理解其中的
一部分，從而更容易地找到自己的平衡。"


“Literally, in each moment, this balance is shifting. It is forever unique for one, many and
all. This is partly the meaning of the one, many and all consciousness. We are in this
together at all levels in all places and all times. If you can imagine this, you can
understand a part of this, and therefore, you can find your balance with greater ease. ”


"你看，"她繼續說，"這是在我們每個人身上都可以認識到的天賦。在這種認識中，
只需觀察所有人是如何在保持我們個人和集體的平衡中扮演一個角色的，我們就可
以對他們產生感激、慈悲和理解。並不是說那些高度分離和低度互相連結的人阻礙
了我們成為一個和平與和諧的世界之進程，而是他們提供了一種天賦來平衡我們前
進的步伐。"


“You see,” she continued, “this is the talent we can recognize in each one of us. In this
recognition we can create gratitude and compassion and understanding for all by simply
observing how they play a role in keeping our individual and collective balance. It is not
that those who have ratios of high separation and low interconnectedness are blocking
our progress to become a world of peace and harmony, they provide a talent to balance
our forward progress. ”


"當然，只有當我們意識到我們都是「全體」的一部分時，我們才能從這個角度看
問題。當我們牢記 我們每個人都是一條「合一的線」，而不僅僅是 在倖存之單一
的遊戲裡競爭的 血肉和骨頭 時。"


“Of course, this perspective is only accessible when we are mindful of how we are all part
of Allness. When we remember that we are each a thread of unity, not simply flesh and
bones competing in the singular game of survival.”


女人完全靜止下來，閉上了眼睛。她似乎深深地擁抱了周圍的寧靜、靜止和深沉的
黑暗。只有十億顆星星和半個月亮的微弱光線照在她的臉上。
The woman became completely still, closing her eyes. She seemed to go into a deep
embrace of the surrounding silence, stillness and deep darkness. Only the dim light of a
billion stars and the half moon shone upon her face.


那男的也閉上了眼睛，深深地吸了一口氣。


The man closed his eyes, too, and took a deep breath.


“只有一種天賦，那就是「一個人以自己獨特的方式在無限的時空中成為「全體」，同時
保持自己的平衡」之能力。一位走鋼索的表演者可以將自己的技藝練得非常嫺熟，以至
於幾乎可以在鋼索上奔跑。然而，如果他們走得太快，無論他們有多熟練，他們都會跌
倒。對我們來說也是如此。所有其他的二元對立，如快樂與悲傷，或成功與失敗，它們
的作用只是在我們跨越時空二元性的旅程中娛樂和啟示我們而已。”


“There is only one talent and it is the talent of the one to become the all in their own
unique way over an infinite spacetime while maintaining their balance. A tightrope
walker can become so good at their craft that they can almost run across a wire. Yet, if
they go too fast, no matter how skilled they are, they will fall. So it is with us. All of the
other dualities like happiness and sadness, or success and failure, they only serve to
entertain and inform us as we make our journey across spacetime duality.”


那男的冷笑一聲。“看來妳可以接受這個想法，並用它來為一些可怕的行為辯護。妳總
是可以說：『這一切都是為了給我們可愛的物種提供平衡，真的不用客氣。』” 男人的
語氣中增添了一絲諷刺。


The man scoffed abit. “It seems like you can take this idea and you can use it to justify
terrible acts. You could always say: ‘It was all done to provide balance to our lovely
species, you’re very welcome.’” The man added a touch of sarcasm to his tone.


女人心領神會地點了點頭。"有些時候，當一個群體或個體的分離比例變得如此強
大，以至於他們讓自己失去平衡，然後可以做出一些不可思議的事情。這些不是天
賦，這些是失衡，是天賦的反面。而它們需要理解和慈悲。它們需要一種 能夠真正
理解極端的分離比例是如何誘發不必要的破壞性行為的 社會文化。”
The woman nodded knowingly. “There are times when the ratio of separation becomes
so strong in a group or individual that they imbalance themselves, and can then do things
that are unthinkable. These are not talents, these are imbalances, the opposite of talent.
And they require understanding and compassion. They require a societal culture that
actually understands how an extreme ratio of separation can induce behavior that is
needlessly destructive.


"然而，在最廣泛的一體性支線中，它仍然是整體的一部分。整體的平衡從來不會
有問題。只有一個人或一個團體的平衡才會有問題，而隨著與其他生命表達的分離
程度越來越大，這種平衡會變得越來越不穩定。"


“Nevertheless, in the broadest arc of oneness, it remains part of a whole. The balance of
the whole is never in question. Only the balance of one or a group can be in question,
and this balance becomes increasingly precarious the further one separates from other
expressions of life. ”


“「自在」存在於相互連結的感覺和覺知中。「自在」是一種流動感，一種與更大的智慧
和不斷擴展的理解相連結的感覺。我所說的那種「自在」與意識有關。這不是一種生物
學上的「舒適」。它們是兩個不同的東西。比如說，我老了。我的身體在它有意識存在
的每一秒幾乎都在疼痛。一個時刻到另一個時刻，只是程度上的問題。然而，我的意識
可以像微風一樣飄過有著充滿活力的動植物的草地。在我的一生中我都可以如此。我所
需要做的就是理解這一點，而這種理解會以它自己的方式忠實地融入我們的思想、感受，
並最終融入我們的行為——我們的實相。”


“Ease is found in the feeling and mindfulness of interconnectedness. Ease is the sense of
flow, a feeling of connection to a larger intelligence and an expanding understanding.
Ease, of the kind I speak of, is related to consciousness. It is not a biological ease. They
are two different things. For example, I am old. My body aches nearly every second of its
conscious existence. It is simply a matter of degree, one moment to the next. However,
my consciousness can flow like a breeze over a meadow of vibrant flora and fauna. I can
be that my entire life. All I need to do is understand this, and that understanding will
faithfully find its way into our thoughts, feelings and ultimately our behaviors — our
reality.”
"啊，行動才是最重要的，不是嗎？"那男的說道，語氣悠遠，似乎陷入了沉思。"然
而，我們在這方面比任何事情都要掙扎。為什麼呢？"


“Ah, it’s the action that counts, isn’t it?” the man observed, his tone distant, as if he was
deep in thought. “Yet, we struggle with that more than anything else. Why?”


"因為我們不理解，而且常常是因為我們不想理解。"


“Because we do not understand, and often, because we do not want to understand.”


"這是為什麼呢？‛ 男的問。 “對我來說這說不通。"


“Why is that?” the man asked. “It doesn’t make sense to me.”


"我們每個人都有自己的平衡需要維持。我們的天賦，還記得嗎？"


“We each have our balance to maintain. Our talent, remember?”


男的點了點頭。"我記得......"


The man nodded. “I do…”


"如果每個人，每個人類，都突然轉變成99%的互相連結，1%的分離呢？你覺得會
發生什麼事？"


“What if everyone, every human being, suddenly shifted to a ratio of 99 percent
interconnectedness, and 1 percent separation? What do you think would happen?”


"我們的世界會改變......？"


“Our world would change…?”


"我們的世界會陷入混亂。"她很快地糾正道。
“Our world would fall into chaos,” she quickly corrected.


她暗自竊笑。“我來告訴你一個故事。我曾經認識一個人，有點像你，他曾經要求證明
行動比思想更強大。我以為他在開玩笑。這怎麼可能不明顯呢？所以我告訴他，讓他想
像他在打我，然後我會以行動做同樣的事情。然後我們可以決定哪個更強大。” 回憶到
這裡，她自己都笑了。


She chuckled to herself. “I will tell you a story. There was a man I knew, somewhat like
you, who asked once to prove that action is stronger than a thought. I thought he was
kidding. How is this not obvious? So I told him to think that he was punching me, and I
would do the same to him, but in action. Then we could decide which is more powerful.”
She smiled to herself at the recollection.


“令我非常驚訝的是，他同意了我的提議。所以，當我們的挑戰開始時，他閉上了眼睛，
要求我等他10秒鐘，然後再打他。我覺得這是一個合理的要求，所以我等了。大約10秒
鐘後，他舉起手，好像在說…來吧，打我吧。但是我根本沒有興趣打他。我無法打他。
我不會打他。我不可能打他。”


“To my utter surprise he agreed to my proposition. So, as our challenge began, he closed
his eyes and asked for 10 seconds before I would strike him. I felt it was a reasonable
request, so I waited. After about 10 seconds he raised his hand as if to say… go ahead, hit
me. But I had no interest in hitting him. I couldn’t hit him. I wouldn’t hit him. It was
impossible for me to hit him. ”


“之後，我問他在那10秒鐘裡他在想什麼，他對我微笑，然後問了我同樣的問題。然後
我明白了。他的思想和感受的精神領域已經吞噬了我，我聽從了它，因為在那一刻他是
我的尊敬的老師。我別無選擇。他知道我是這樣看待生命的，知道我會聽從他的思想和
感受，即使它們是無聲無形的。”


“Afterwards, I asked him what he had been thinking about for those 10 seconds, and he
smiled at me, and asked me the same question. And then I understood. His mental
sphere of thought and feeling had engulfed me and I had listened to it, because he was
my revered teacher at that moment. I had no choice. And he knew that I saw life in that
way and that I would listen to his thoughts and feelings, even though they were silent
and invisible. “


她停了下來，直視著那個男人，用食指指著他。“永遠不要相信我們的思想和感受不
如行動那麼強大，或者你可以想著和感受一件事情，然後採取另一種行動。它們是同一
個生物的兩條腿，它們總是一起行動。它們是一體的，即使它們看起來不是。對於
sovereign來說，它們是一體的。而且因為思想和感受通常是先發生的，行動緊隨其後，
所以思想和感受是催化劑。它們是強大的夥伴。如果它們專注於互相連結，那麼它們催
化出來的那些行動就是屬於互相連結的。”


She paused, and looked directly at the man with her index finger pointing at him. “Never
believe that our thoughts and feelings are less powerful than action or that you can think
and feel one thing, and then act another. They are two legs of the same creature and
they always walk together. They are one thing, even when they appear not to be. To the
sovereign, they are one thing. And because thought and feeling usually happen first, and
action follows, thought and feeling are the catalysts. They are powerful partners. If they
are focused on interconnectedness, then the actions they catalyze are of
interconnectedness.“


女人掙扎著要站起來，在樹幹的幫助下，她成功了。男人和她一起站了起來。松樹
的第一根枝幹離地面大約有 7 英尺，它就像一隻從天而降的巨手，盤旋在他們頭頂。
"我只能坐這麼長的時間，而現在已經很晚了，我的朋友。希望我們能再次相遇，
但要在不是因為找水的情況下。" 她微笑著轉身離開。


The woman struggled to stand, and with a little help from the tree trunk, she managed.
The man stood with her. The first branch of the pine tree was about 7 feet from the
ground, and it was hovering above them like a huge hand from the heavens. “I can only
sit so long, and it is late, my friend. I hope we will cross paths again, but under
circumstances where water is not the reason.” She smiled, turned, and walked away.


"等等！"那男的幾乎喊了出來。"妳不想要一些水嗎？妳可以用我的水壺。我去鎮上
再買一個。"


“Wait!” the man almost shouted. “Don’t you want some water? You can take mine. I’ll go
into town and get another jug.”
她轉過身，搖了搖頭。"我沒事。水會找到我的。"


She turned and shook her head. “I am fine. Water will find me.”


男人跑向她。"請拿著吧，我堅持，把這壺水帶走吧。我要再找一個水壺比妳容易
多了。"


The man ran to her. “Here, please, I insist, take this jug. It’s easier for me to get another
than it is for you.”


“也許是這樣，但我知道在我需要的時候哪裡有更多的水，” 她說。她溫柔地撫摸著男人
的臉頰。"不過還是謝謝你的好意。"


“That may be true, but I know where there is more water when I need it,” she said. She
touched the cheek of the man tenderly. “But thank you for your kindness.”


她再一次地走開了。男人看著她消失在夜空中，就像一個穿著黑袍的人在黑暗的世
界之間滑行。


Once again, she walked away. The man watched her disappear into the night air like one
who wears a black robe slips between worlds of darkness.


當她消失在夜色中之後，他也開始離開。水壺在他手中已經變得沉重。


He began to walk away after she had disappeared into the night. The jug was already
getting heavy in his hands.


一個陌生人走過來，向他伸出雙手。“如果太重了的話，我可以幫你減輕負擔。”他友好
地咧嘴一笑。


A stranger came up to him with their arms outstretched. “If it’s too heavy, I can lighten
your load.” He grinned in a friendly way.
那男的遞給他水，陌生人喝了幾秒鐘，然後恭敬地把水壺遞了回來。


The man offered him a drink, and the stranger drank the water for several seconds and
then, respectfully, handed the jug back.


“謝謝你，”陌生人說，用袖子擦了擦嘴。“和你說話的那個女的是誰？”


“Thank you,” the stranger said, wiping his mouth with his sleeve. “Who was the Woman
you were talking with?”


那男的沒有意識到他們被監視了，被這個問題嚇了一跳。"你是誰？"


The man hadn’t realized they had been watched, and was taken back by the
question.“Who are you?”


“我是個陌生人。”


“I am a stranger.”


"你叫什麼名字，陌生人？"


“What is your name, stranger?”


"這個名字就可以了。"


“That name will do.”


"你想讓我叫你陌生人......嗯......你監視和聽到我們的談話有多久了？"


“You want me to call you Stranger… hmm…For how long were you watching and
hearing our conversation?”


"我就在那棵樹的另一邊" 他指著他們在其下談話的同樣那棵樹說 "我能聽到一切。
但什麼也看不到。可是我可以告訴你，你每次喝水，我就更渴了。" 他把頭點得像
個驚嘆號。


“I was just on the other side of the trunk of that tree.” He pointed to the same tree
where they had been talking. “I could hear everything. Couldn’t see a thing, but every
time you took a drink, I became thirstier, I can tell you that.” He bobbed his head like an
exclamation mark.


"這是一個私人談話，你應該要做點什麼。"


“It was a private conversation, you should have said something.”


“像是？”


“Like what?”


"就......告訴我們你當時在場。表明你的身份。"


“Well…tell us that you were there. Identify yourself.”


"我這不就做了。我不想打斷你們。我覺得這是最......最不尋常的對話。她是誰？"


“I just did. I didn’t want to interrupt. I found it the most…a most unusual
conversation. Who is she?”


"之前我只見過她一次，我從沒問過她的名字。"


“I only met her once before. I have never asked her name.”


"但對我，你馬上就問了。為什麼？"陌生人問。


“And yet, with me, you asked right away. Why?” the stranger asked.


"我不知道。"


“I’m not sure.”
"那樣的人，你不會想失去她的蹤跡。她是個神諭。"


“Someone like that, you don’t want to lose track of. She’s an oracle.”


"神諭？"那男的驚訝地重複道。"她怎麼會是個神諭？"


“An oracle?” the man repeated in surprise. “How is she an oracle?”


"她似乎知道未來，"陌生人說。


“She seems to know the future,” the stranger said.


"我想沒有人知道未來吧？"


“I don’t think anyone knows the future?”


"也許不是明天會發生什麼，但最終會發生什麼......她知道。"


“Maybe not what will happen tomorrow, but what will ultimately happen…she does.”


"哦......"


“Humm…”



“無論如何，”陌生人說，“謝謝你的水。我得走了。前方還有很長的路要走。”


“Anyway,” the stranger said, “thank you for the water. I have to be moving on. There’s a
long walk ahead of me.”


“請原諒我的問題，”那男的說，“但我很好奇，我們的對話對你有意義嗎？”


“Forgive the question,” the man said, “but I’m curious, did our conversation make sense
to you?”


“你問的每一個問題我也都在思考。她的回答很有道理，但我無法說明它們為何或為什
麼有道理。就像…就像某種非常簡單的東西，它是如此簡單，以至於很難理解，也不是
因為它很複雜，而是因為我心中充滿了這種複雜性。它如此簡單，以至於讓我想起這一
點。”


“Everything you asked was going through my mind, too. Her answers made sense, and
yet, I cannot say how or why they make sense. It’s like…it’s like something very simple
that is so simple it is complex to understand, not so much because it is complex, but
because I carry this complexity within me. It is so simple that it reminds me of that.”


“是的！確實如此，這正是我一直在試圖要理解的。我該如何放下我所學到的複雜性
呢？”


“Yes! That is exactly true, and it’s what I’ve been trying to understand. How do I drop the
complexity that I have learned?”



"要忘記已經學習的是困難的，"陌生人搖搖頭說道。"我們必須願意藉由放下舊的來為
新事物讓出空間，我們說的不是像綁鞋帶這樣的事情，而是關於我們是誰的基本理解。
（不只我們每個人自己是誰，還有）我們全部（又是誰）。"


“Unlearning is hard,” the stranger said, shaking his head. “We have to be willing to make
room for the new by letting go of the old, and we’re not talking about things like tying
our shoes, we’re talking about fundamental understanding of who we are. All of us.”


"那你做到了嗎？"男的問。


“And did you do that?” the man asked.


"還沒有。"


“Not yet.”
"為什麼？你不認為這有價值嗎？"


“Why? You don’t see the value?”


陌生人欲言又止。他長歎了一口氣。"我認為關於平衡的那件事，她說的是對的。
我還沒有完全準備好要放棄那些在我的思想和心中循環流通的舊有複雜性。我仍然
必須參與倖存的遊戲。我仍然需要生活在某種不同的社會習俗中。我無法在一個神
奇的瞬間就把這一切都放棄了。"陌生人彈了手指，發出一聲響亮的斷奏聲。


The stranger began to speak and then stopped. He let out a long sigh. “I think she’s right
about that balance thing. I’m not entirely ready to give up the old complexities that
circulate in my mind and heart. I still have to play the game of survival. I still need to live
in some variation of social convention. I can’t give that all up in one magic moment.” The
stranger snapped his fingers, making a loud staccato sound.


那男的將水壺放在地上，表示他打算再待一會兒。 “但這對你來說是有意義的？‛


The man set his jug down on the ground, signaling his intent to stay for a while. “But it
made sense to you?”


陌生人停頓了一下，交叉雙臂，好像在仔細考慮這個問題。“這麼說吧，我對它持開放
的態度，我不願意開放的那些部分，就只能等一等了。此外，根據她的說法，我已經知
道這一切了。這只是我需要記起的一個記憶。當我準備好的時候，它仍然會在那裡。”


The stranger paused, and crossed his arms, as if he were giving the question a thorough
deliberation. “Let’s just say that I’m open to it, and the parts I’m not open to, will have to
wait. Besides, according to her, I already know this. It’s just a memory I need to
remember. When I’m ready, it’ll still be there.”


陌生人說完，指著水壺。“離開之前我再喝一口可以嗎？”


With that said, the stranger pointed to the water jug. “One more swig before I go?”
那男的點了點頭。“當然可以。”


The man nodded. “Sure.”


陌生人喝了一大口，將水壺放回地上。“正如我所承諾的，我已經減輕了你的負擔。
謝謝你讓我這麼做。‛


The stranger took a long drink and put the jug back on the ground. “As promised, I have
lightened your load. Thank you for letting me do so.”


"樂意分享，"那男的說。


“Happy to share,” the man said.


"很抱歉我偷聽了你們的談話。如果能讓你們感到安慰的話，我在你們之前就已經
在樹下了。我睡著了，你們的聲音把我吵醒了，我醒了之後就一直聽著。我只是聽
著。事實上，你就是我的聲音。你問的問題正是我想問的。所以謝謝你。"


“And I’m sorry I eavesdropped on your conversation. If it’s any consolation, I was under
the tree before either of you. I had fallen asleep, and your voices woke me up, and once I
was awake, I just listened. I just listened. You were my voice, actually. The questions you
asked were the very ones I wanted to ask. So thank you for that.”


那男的點點頭。‚你的思想一定很開放，‛他評論道。


The man nodded. “You must be very open minded,” he observed.


“其實不然，”他打趣的說。“跟一般人差不多。”


“Not really,” he quipped. “No more than the next.”


"我覺得你不是一般人，"那男的說。


“I don’t think you’re the average person,” the man said..
陌生人向那男的靠近，將聲音降至低語。


The stranger leaned toward the man, turning his voice to a mere whisper.


“對這件事持開放態度的人很多。非常多。”


“There are so many open to this. So many.”


他轉身離去。留下他的低語在空氣中盤旋迴盪，像黑暗的天空裡那些明亮的雲彩。


He turned and walked away. Leaving his whispered words hovering in the air like bright
clouds in a dark sky.
15
