Something Ancient has Opened
(a return made new)
Alignos
A transmission of the Field
From James Mahu and Lumina
(Launched — 07/27/25)
James Mahu Releases Collection of 20 Insightful New Essays
James Mahu’s latest collection features 20 profound philosophical essays, exploring the depths of human consciousness, purpose, and interconnectedness. Dive into this transformative journey and uncover insights that inspire and elevate your understanding of who we are and why we are here.
Scales, Fur, Feathers, and Flesh
Exploring the bonds between worlds
James’ latest novel, Scales, Fur, Feathers and Flesh, marks a departure from his previous works. This novel introduces the many-worlds concept in physics, using mythological creatures as its cast of characters. Dragons, phoenixes, cervitaurs, humans, WingMakers, mapinguaris, shapeshifters, and werewolves—all these and more are abruptly torn from their previous worlds and identities, and placed into a completely different reality for an unknown purpose.
These entities find themselves in a new world with no context, seemingly brought together by a mysterious force. Their task is to collaborate in solving a complex situation that could lead to a world war. Through this imaginative and thought-provoking narrative, James explores themes of identity, cooperation, and the unknown forces that shape our destinies.
This new novel, like the previous release, Copernicus, is available on the MOCI.life website for free.
The Sovereign Integral
A New Model of Existence
This is a free, 80-page, in-depth description of the Sovereign Integral consciousness, of which we are all a part of. As the title suggests, James goes into the fine-grained details about this internal cosmological structure, called by various names, but until now, it remained largely undefined.
In WingMakers, the concept of spiritual journey is change. In this case, the change is that we move ever closer to an understanding of what we are underneath the physical body. To use a car metaphor, we look under the hood to better understand the engine, learning to pilot our body and mind by our immortal consciousness.
PREFACE
| Collected Works Vol. 1
One of the best introductions to the WingMakers Materials is arguably written by James Mahu in the Preface of his book, the Collected Works of the WingMakers, Volume I. It is a lucid and artful description of the origins of these works, their purpose, and how each of us can use these materials to magnify our own spiritual understanding.
| SPIRITUAL LIFE
The spiritual life is not the life of community as it once played out. Spiritual paths are becoming more numerous. Even large, well-established religions are splintering into smaller sects. With the rise of New Age belief systems, the spiritual life remains as diverse as it has ever been. Amid this diversity, individuals can end up being perplexed by the choices;...
ANCIENT ARROW MUSIC
If there’s a starting point for WingMakers Materials, it could be said that the Ancient Arrow site was it. It is the Ancient Arrow site that was the first introduction to the WingMakers mythology, their art, music, philosophy, poetry, and inner technologies (techniques).
NERUDA INTERVIEWS
There are a total of five separate interviews of Dr. Jamisson Neruda that were conducted by a journalist in the San Diego area. The interviews occurred shortly after Neruda’s defection from the black-ops ACIO (Advanced Contact Intelligence Organization). These interviews are among the most important content in the WingMakers Materials.
LITERATURE
The literature of WingMakers is vast and varied. It often puts people into the mode of “where should I start?” Scanning the materials and seeing what resonates with you best answers this question. As everyone is activated by different elements, stories, characters and even cover art. See what resonates and trust your own sense of where to start…or even whether...
SONG OF WHALES
| POEM
The Song of Whales is from the Ancient Arrow site, written by James Mahu. It is produced here in audio by Mark Hempel.
The WingMakers poetry provides insight into how one can confront the apparent “lack of substance” in the material world and live meaningfully. It seeks to heighten our intuitive faculties over the unconscious, persistent belief in a dominant reality shaped by ancient mythologies and perpetuated by our modern-day social architects.
CHAMBER 1 MUSIC
Chamber 1 derives from the WingMakers First Source Disc, released in 2001. It was the first song from the first album and as such, provides the "headwaters" for all the music that came after it.
SIX HEART VIRTUES
The Six Heart Virtues consist of appreciation, compassion, forgiveness, humility, understanding and valor. Simple words, but as James has said, “words are energetic ‘vessels.’” and in this case, the “vessels” hold vibrant and empowering behaviors that—when applied to our everyday lives—help us achieve meaningful lives.
HAKOMI MUSIC
The music of the Hakomi series is the second site discovered in South America. As with all of the WingMakers music, it is a mixture of expansive vocals and global instrumentation.
HAKOMI CHAMBER 4
| MUSIC
This is the first song from the Hakomi Chambers 4-6 CD. This was James' seventh album.
Central to WingMakers philosophy is that we live in a multiverse in which there are different frequencies or vibratory levels of experience. Within this cosmological structure there is First Source, a singular, non-dichotomous entity that is an energetic presence on all levels of our multiverse
CHAMBER ART PAPERS
Chris Lock has written three academic papers on the WingMakers Chamber art - specifically Chambers 1, 6 and 17.
PAINTINGS
This is the purpose of the art: to activate the collective archetype of the Sovereign Integral. To dredge this consciousness, so well hidden, to the surface of human existence so it can be examined in a new light. And in this examination, a person can activate this consciousness within themselves a little stronger.
MYTH
WingMakers is a contemporary mythology, yet it provides insights and perspectives on a wide range of topics that pertain to an individual's spiritual nature, opaqueness of governments, religious malfeasance, technological singularity, and the broader cosmological structure we call the multiverse.
JAMES MAHU
A prolific writer, artist and musician, James is primarily interested in elevating the conversation around the concept of the Sovereign Integral and how the human soul requires a redefinition or refresh in the human culture.
WHAT IS A SPIRITUAL LIFE?
TOOLS
PRACTITIONERS
WingMakers is designed to be practiced. There is no race to the top to become more spiritual than someone else. It is not the goal of WingMakers that each of us ascends to the role of teacher, master or become an “enlightened one.”