TITLE: 文章_詹姆斯玛呼中文站
SOURCE: https://www.jamesmahu.com.cn/index.php?c=category&id=4 + jm_pdf_1 opening
CHARS: 3101
STATUS: READ

文章
詹姆斯.玛呼的文本横跨了广泛的体裁，包括：小说、灵性文档、哲学论文、合集、诗歌、网站及采访文录。他文本的核心则始终围绕着他称之为的造翼者神话，更近期则主要围绕着 主权性积分态 意识的理论。
他的文本已被翻译成20多种语言，在全球范围内被广泛阅读。有时候他会被跟纪伯伦和保罗·科埃略相提并论，詹姆斯的小说总是带着形而上的特质，又带有一种诗人的声音。
阅读
新版本
主权性积分态
一种新的存在模式
詹姆斯.玛呼最新发布的文章，名为《 主权性积分态 ：一种新的存在模式》。这是一份80页免费文本，深入描绘了 主权性积分态 意识，而我们全都属于它的一部分。
正如标题暗示的，詹姆斯深入进了这种内在宇宙性结构的细致纹理，该结构被称作各式各样的名字，但直到现在，它在很大程度上仍然未被定义。
其主题则涉及到了最为基本的属性：在核心本质上，我们是谁，为什么在这里?詹姆斯对这些主题的处理清晰而又富于挑战性，始终保持着一种既诗意又哲学的声音。
这是他的第一份非虚构类作品，聚焦在最具有挑战性的主题上:定义意识的性质。詹姆斯在文本中纳入了图表和大量的绘画，来帮助读者感知到自己更全面地理解了这个至关重要、鲜活振动，却又难以捉摸的意识，詹姆斯称之为 主权性积分态 。
阅读
精选作品
聂鲁达访谈
诗歌
哲学
理瑞克斯会话
翻译
意识的物理学
图解
心脏六美德

--- 主权性积分态文本开篇（本站 PDF） ---
The Sovereign Integral
A new model of existence
Written in 2021 by James Mahu.
All diagrams and artwork were also produced by James Mahu.
jamesmahu.com
sovereignintegral.org
English Version: 1.0
Creative Commons BY-NC-ND: This license allows reusersto copy and distribute the
material in any medium or format in unadapted form only, for noncommercial purposes
only, and only so long as attribution is given to the creator.
CC BY-NC-ND includes the following elements:
BY– Credit must be given to the creator
NC– Only noncommercial uses of the work are permitted
ND– No derivatives or adaptations of the work arepermitted
The Sovereign Integral
A New Model of Existence
The limits of my language means the limits of my world.
–Ludwig Wittgenstein, Tractatuslogico-philosophicus,1922.
AUTHOR’S INTRODUCTION
Consciousness is the most important subject that is the least understood. Take a
moment and think about this statement. We know more about the universe than a single
consciousness. I do not equate the brain and its neural circuitry as a surrogate of
consciousness. They are distinct entities, having distinct capacities and purposes. The
brain, inside a protective skull, analyzing and computing information of a single lifetime;
and consciousness, which begins at the outer perimeter of self-knowledge like an
expanding frontier, is an infinite, unbounded Sovereign, enmeshed in lifetimes and
dimensions too numerous to enumerate.
Consciousness is elusive to the measurements and detections of science, because it is
perfectly subjective. There is not one consciousness that shares a single identical
experience with another. Consciousness is unique to every life form. Every single one,
giving consciousness the dubious distinction of being the most difficult thing to map or
make explicit, due to the two halves of its reality: infinite complexity and perfect
subjectivity.
Throughout history, cartographers tried to envision a map of the world. They used verbal
reports from travelers and explorers or they, themselves, were the traveler and explorer.
They transcribed these reports into maps that presented a vision of a territory. One
could even call it a theory of the planet’s geographical face. Tens of thousands of
iterations were made mapping the earth, adding details like islands, mountain ranges,
rivers, three-dimensional topography; making adjustments when new lands were
discovered or conquered. Today we have satellites, fractal geometry and powerful
computers to make this fin
