TITLE: MOCI-Psiage-80e9
SOURCE: https://www.mocilife.cn/uploadfile/202402/80e9ddef5293553.pdf
CHARS: 41822
STATUS: READ

At the Well
At the Well
E2 : S1
Written in 2023 by James Mahu
All artwork produced by James Mahu
James Mahu 寫於2023年
所有的美術作品皆由James Mahu所創作
MOCI.life
SovereignIntegral.org
WingMakers.com
JamesMahu.com
Free Audiobook available at MOCI.life
English Version: 1.0
Creative Commons BY-NC-ND: This license allows reusers to copy and distribute the
material in any medium or format in unadapted form only, for noncommercial purposes
only, and only so long as attribution is given to the creator.
CC BY-NC-ND includes the following elements:
BY — Credit must be given to the creator
NC — Only noncommercial uses of the work are permitted
ND — No derivatives or adaptations of the work are permitted
版權：知識共用
知識共用BY-NC-ND：本許可容許使用者在保證著作權歸屬作者前提下，
基於非商業目的且無篡改地以任何媒體及格式複製和分發該作品。
CC BY-NC-ND包括以下要素:
BY（署名）：署名必須歸於作者
NC（非商業用途）：只允許本作品的非商業用途
ND（禁止演繹）：不容許本作品的衍生品或改編
At the Well 在井邊
E2 : S1
事件 1 ：第 2 節
中文翻譯整理：psiage
有一天，大約他們在橋上初次相遇的三週後，那位婦女和那男的再次相遇了。整個
山谷都受到了缺水的影響，但有一口深邃而堅定的井，仍然不間斷地在供水。來自
整個地區的人們都會前往這口井。有些人步行，有些人則乘坐馬車。
One day, about three weeks after their first meeting on the bridge, the woman and the
man crossed paths again. A water shortage was affecting the entire valley, and there was
one well, deep and true, that was still providing water without interruption. People from
all over the region would make the journey to this well. Some by foot and some by horse-
drawn cart.
這口井被很多人稱為 "頂石井"。傍晚時分，年輕人提著空水壺終於來到了井邊。在
光線漸暗中，他看到了那個女人，她曾和他談論過一些更大的概念，這些概念沒有
圍牆，因為它們不是人類發明的。
The well was widely known as the capstone well. It was late in the evening when the
young man finally reached it, carrying his empty water jug. In the dwindling light he saw
the woman he had spoken with about the larger concepts that had no walls around them
because they were not invented by humanness.
他走到她面前，無視那口井。 “是妳嗎？” 他的聲音聽起來甚至連他自己都有些驚
訝。
He walked up to her, ignoring the well. “Is it you?” His voice sounded surprised, even to
him.
"總會有個人是我吧。" 她淡淡地笑著說。
“Someone has to be me,” she said with a thin smile.
"你還記得嗎？大約三週前，我們在高橋上見過面。"
“Do you remember? We met on the high bridge about three weeks ago.”
她點了點頭。
She nodded.
"妳是來找水的嗎...怎...怎麼沒看到妳帶水壺？ "
“Are you here for water...I...I don’t see you carrying a jug?” He asked.
"我想我是為了你而來的吧。"
“I guess I’m here for you.”
"我就是來取水的，我會分一些給妳。"
“I was going to get some water, I’ll share what I have with you.”
她再次點點頭，但這次，她聳了聳肩。 “我的手臂受傷了，我無法把水拉上來，太
重了。”
Again, she nodded, but this time, with a little shrug. “I have an injured arm and I can’t pull
the water up, it’s too heavy.”
年輕人像是開關被打開一樣地立刻行動起來。當他走到井邊，拉起水井的吊桶時，
才意識到水桶實際上有多重。他把水壺裝到滿，只損失了幾滴水，然後回到那位女
士身邊。在他提著水壺搖晃著保持平衡的整段路上，他一直在思考著要問她什麼問
題。
The young man jumped to action, as if a switch had been thrown. When he got to the well,
pulling the well bucket up, he realized how heavy it actually was. He filled his water jug to
the very top, spilling only a few drops, and then returned to the woman. The whole time
he walked his full water jug, jostling his balance, he thought about what question he
would ask her.
為了讓她能喝上第一口水，他把水壺遞給她，然後才意識到這對她來說太重了。"這
樣吧，我幫妳拿著，"他提議道。
He made sure to give her the first sip of water, handing her the jug, before realizing it was
too heavy for her. “Here, let me hold it for you,” he offered.
女人雙手緊緊地捧著，他往她的肉杯裡倒了一些水，她立刻就喝了下去，然後長長
地嘆了口氣。
The woman cupped her hands tightly and he poured some water into her cup of flesh,
which she instantly drank, followed by a long sigh.
"謝謝你。我幾乎都忘了我有多渴了。" "這是我的榮幸，" 他說。
“Thank you. I had almost forgotten how thirsty I was.” “It’s an honor,” he said.
女人就站在幾呎之外，但黑暗中，她的臉龐模糊不清。然而，他記得她的聲音，那
天晚上，它就成了她全部的身份特徵。太陽已經下山了，但天空中仍殘留著藍紫色
和淡橙色的餘暉。
The woman was standing only a few feet away, but in the darkness, her face was vague
and indistinct. Her voice, however, he remembered, and on that night, it became her full
identity. The sun had already set, but there remained an afterglow in the sky of blue-violet
and pale orange.
男人坐下來，從壺裡喝了一大口。 喝完後，他又給再次捧起雙手的女人倒了一杯。
The man sat down and took a swig from the jug. When he finished he offered more to the
women who again cupped her hands.
"我可以問你一個問題嗎？"
“May I ask you a question?”
她喝完了水，用親切的目光看著他。"當然可以。"
She finished her drink of water, and looked at him with kind eyes. “Of course.”
"在這一生中，妳最感興趣的三件事是什麼？"
“What in this life are the three most interesting things to you?”
她想了一會兒，思考著這個問題，內心也在問自己，是否真的知道答案。"我想，如
果要我把它總結到一件事的話，那就是，時空中有無數的生命形式，但沒有一個生
命形式擁有和我完全相同的「對於實相的見解」。實相的每一個點 都是不同的。我
們就像一個由無數個點組成的、不斷在擴大的球體，每個點都是不同的。然而，當
我們想像我們的集體核心－－越過過去的人類世代、過去的任何族類、過去的任何
行星、過去的任何宇宙......如果我們真的回到我們所源自的起源。如果我們到達那裡，
到我們實相的最核心，我們會找到我們的源頭，而在那裡，我們是一體的。"
She thought about it for a while, pondering the question, wondering inside her if she
actually knew the answer. “I guess if I were to narrow it to one thing, it would be that
there are an infinite number of life forms in spacetime, and yet not one of them has my
exact view into reality. Every single point of reality is different. We’re like an expanding
sphere of points, infinite in number, and we are different, every single one. And yet, when
we imagine our collective core — past human generations, past any species, past any
planet, past any universe...if we really go back to the origins from which we spring. If we
go there, to our very core of reality, we find our source, and there we are one.”
她低頭看了一會兒自己的手，然後把它們放在膝上。“這對我來說是最有趣的事情。
而這種認識是如何從我們的理解中掙脫而消失的，這對我來說是下一個最有趣的事
情。然後下一個......好吧，我想，那就是我們要如何記住這一點，並且在時空中把
它維持下去。”
She looked down at her hands for a moment, and then set them in her lap. “That is the
most interesting thing to me. How that realization has somehow managed to squirm away
from our comprehension, that is the next most interesting thing to me. And then the
next...well, I suppose, it’s how do we remember this and sustain it through spacetime.”
她注視著那個男的，眼神如同在薄暮天空中閃耀的兩個光球。“為什麼這對妳來說
是最有趣的事情呢？”他問道。
She set her eyes on the man like two orbs of light, glowing in a twilight sky. “Why are
these the most interesting things to you?” he asked.
"它們對你來說不是嗎？"她以一種驚愕的方式回答。
“Are they not to you?” she answered in a startled way.
他搖了搖頭。"並不是。"
He shook his head. “Not really.”
"為什麼呢？"
“And why?”
“我們都是不同的，這一點我明白，” 那男的回答。“但那個一體的部分，我看不
到。自從我們上次交談以來，我一直不停地在思考這個問題。想像我們的一體性。
想像「下一件事情（會發生）的背後是什麼」，而我看不到。我感受不到它。它似乎
像是......在黑暗房間裡的一縷蒸氣。”
“We’re all different. I get that,” the man replied. “But the oneness part. I don’t see it.
Since we spoke last, I’ve been thinking about this nonstop. Imagining our oneness.
Imagining what’s behind the next thing and I can’t see it. I can’t feel it. It seems like it’s...a
vapor in a dark room.”
那個女人笑了。"嗯。"
The woman smiled. “Hmm.”
"怎麼了？"
“Well ?”
"嗯，「一體性」比較難看到。你必須引導它進入你的生活，因為它透過我們而存在，
而我們的想像力，也就是那個我們用來想像「互相連結」的東西，已經被訓練成，
要去想像「分離」，而不是「互相連結」了。"
“Well, the oneness is harder to see. You have to guide it into your life, because it lives
through us, and our imagination, the thing we use to imagine interconnectedness, has
been trained to imagine separation, not interconnection.”
"那麼，我要如何轉換這種......這種被訓練過的觀點呢？"
“Then how do I shift that...that trained perspective?”
"把你生命的所有部分都看作是「相互連結」的一種表現。"
“You see all parts of your life as an expression of interconnectedness.”
"所有部分？"
“All parts?”
"你已經在做了。每個人都是如此。每個人都知道他們與所有生命都是相互連結的。
只是在不斷針對我們的「灌輸分離的洪流」中，很難堅守這種認知。我們在兒童時
期就被訓練要放開這種「我們是互相連結的」的感覺和知曉。一旦我們放開它了，
要找回它並且再次緊抓著它，可能就會是一段艱困的旅程了。"
“You already do. Everyone does. Everyone knows that they are interconnected to all life.
It’s just too hard to hold onto amid the torrent of separation propaganda that is aimed at
us constantly. We are trained to let go of that as children — the feeling and knowingness
that we are interconnected. And once we let go of it, it can be a difficult journey to find it
and to hold it again.”
那男的部分地理解了，但有件事還在困擾著他。"但「個體、群體和全體意識」的一
個部分，也就是「群體」的那部分，嗯，那就是我們生活的方式——團體生活啊，"
他帶有情緒地說。"我們有家庭、工作團隊、我們的城市、國家、政治、社區活動、
宗教聚會，我們有所有的這些事物，它們給予我們連結感。為什麼我們還需要更多
呢？"
The man understood partly, but something nagged at him. “But the part of the one, many
and all consciousness that is the many, well, that is how we live — in groups,” he said with
emotion. “We have families, work teams, our city, state, politics, community events,
religious gatherings, we have all of these things and they provide us with our sense of
connection. Why do we need more?”
"如果我們沒有將它作為時空二元性裡的基本實相，我們就不需要。因為我們生活在
那種世界裡，一旦我們有了基本的相互連結（譯註：即形成 群體），我們就會有基
本的分離，而從這兩件事中，所有其他的二元性就會產生。「群體」是 sovereign
（譯註：個體）與 integral（譯註：全體） 之間的橋樑。在每一個二元性裡都有一座
橋樑。訣竅是跨過那座橋，而不是沉迷於懸掛在（橋梁）兩邊的分離之鏡。"
“We wouldn’t if we didn’t have it as our base reality in spacetime duality. Because we
live in that world, the moment we have a fundamental interconnection, we will have a
fundamental separation, and from those two things, all other dualities arise. The Many is
the bridge between the sovereign and the integral. In every duality there is a bridge. The
trick is to cross that bridge and not dwell upon the mirror of separation that hangs on
either side.”
"妳說我們都知道我們與所有生命都是相互連結的......怎麼會呢？"他問，臉上寫著疑
惑。
“You said we all know that we are interconnected to all life...how?” he asked, with doubt
written on his face.
"如果有任何東西被排除在外，"女人回答說，"全體就不會是相互連結的。沒有全體，
一體性 就不可能存在。這很明顯，不是嗎？"
“If anything is excluded,” the woman answered, “the All cannot be interconnected.
Oneness cannot exist without all. This is obvious, is it not?”
他可以看到她的頭在黑暗中擺動，但他知道這是個不要求回答的修辭性疑問句。
He could see her head bobbing in the darkness, but he knew it was a rhetorical question.
"我們生活在一片能量的海洋中，"她繼續說道。 "那能量是一個無窮的整體。它以分
離的方式 來 存在和運動，因為「分離」與「個體」和「全體」都有連結。在「個體、
群體、和全體意識」裡，「群體」是分離的點，但它同時也是整合（integration）的
點，因此 它是一座橋梁，但那座橋樑的每一邊都有它自己的實相。一邊是單一的一
生，一個個體的實相；而另一邊是一種「全體性之互相連結的實相」。然後在這中間，
我們有著「在各種 團體 裡的個體（the sovereign within groups）」。它既是那個「是
為我們人類世界裡的分離之建築師」的知覺 之一部分，但同時也是「個體」和「全
體」之間的橋樑。"
“We live in a sea of energy,” she continued. “That energy is all one infinite thing. It lives
and moves in separation, because separation is connected to the One and All. Within the
one, many and all consciousness, the many is the point of separation, but it is also the
point of integration, thus it is a bridge, but each side of that bridge is a reality unto itself.
There is a single lifetime, an individual reality on one side; and there is an interconnected
reality of allness on the other. And in between we have the sovereign within groups. It is
the part of consciousness that is the architect of separation in our human world, yet it is
also the bridge between the One and the All.”
“它究竟是怎麼樣的一座橋樑呢？” 他問道。
“How exactly is it a bridge?” he asked.
她清了清嗓子。“有一個關於一位女性藝術家的故事——一位表演藝術家。她認為，
如果能知道一幅畫在博物館裡被觀賞時是什麼感覺，一定會很有趣。她安排將自己
置身在一個博物館的場景中，並且用帶子和鉤子懸掛在牆上。”
She cleared her throat. “There is a story of a woman who was an artist — a performance
artist. And she decided it would be interesting to know what a painting would feel like
when it was being observed in a museum. She arranged to place herself in a museum
setting and be hung on the wall with straps and hooks. ”
"有一根小柱子可以讓她站立，距離地面大約 4 英尺。 她被綁住了，因為柱子本身
很窄。 從各方面來說，她都被當作牆上的一幅畫來對待，她甚至有自己的標語牌，
描述她是誰，她是用什麼材料製成的，她的頭銜..."
“There was a small post she could stand on, it was about 4 feet from the floor. She was
strapped in, because the post itself was quite narrow. In every way she was treated as if
she was a painting on the wall, she even had her own placard that described what she was,
what material she was made out of, her title...”
"標語牌上寫的是什麼？"他問。
“What did the placard say?” he asked.
“包著靈魂的皮膚，65寸 x 21寸，碳⋯” 大致是這樣，但我想說的是，她把自己獻
身成為兩個世界之間的橋樑：觀察者和被觀察者。在這個案例中，是一幅畫和一位
人類觀察者。”
“Skin over Soul, 65” x 21”, Carbon...it was something like that, but the point I’m making
is that she offered herself to become a bridge between two worlds: The observer and the
observed. In this case, a painting and a human observer.”
"那她的結論是什麼？"
“And what were her conclusions?”
"短短幾分鐘內，人們就對她評頭論足，摸她的頭，搔她的腳，用東西戳她的腿，咒
罵她，總之，這對她來說是一次悲慘的經歷。然而，她得到的教訓是，她不是牆上
的一幅畫，而是一面鏡子。一幅畫，如果畫得好，會把你帶入一個從未見過的新世
界。一面鏡子只是反映了已經存在的世界。"
“Within minutes, people were judging her, touching her, tickling her feet, poking her legs
with objects, cursing at her, and in general, it was a miserable experience for her. Her
lesson, however, was that she wasn’t a painting on the wall, she was a mirror. A painting,
if done well, draws you into a new world that hasn’t been seen before. A mirror simply
reflects the world that already is.”
那男的舉起了他的手。"這個故事要怎麼回答我關於「你稱之為 群體 的那部分的意
識，以及群體怎麼會是個體和全體之間的橋梁」的問題呢？"
The man raised his hand in the air. “How does this story answer my question about the
part of consciousness that you call the many, and how the many is a bridge between the
one and all?”
"意識是我們的核心。人性是我們的表層。意識是個體（one），即 sovereign 。它同
時也是群體（many），也就是「在一個族類的各種團體裡的 sovereign」。而全體（all）
則是在每一個時空裡的每一件事物和每一個人。「個體、群體、和全體意識」包含了
「分離」以及在其中的一切。Sovereign Integral 就是「個體」與「全體」，但當它活
在時空二元性中的一個人類實相裡時，Sovereign Integral 成為了「群體」。它變成了
既不是一個 sovereign ，也不是一個 integral，而是，它成為了一個人類、一隻豪豬、
一頭鯨魚、一棵橡樹或一隻蜜蜂。它成為了這些 物質性的體現。"
“Consciousness is our core. Humanness is our surface. Consciousness is one, the
sovereign. It is also the many, which is the sovereign in groups within a species. And it is
the all, which is everything and everyone in every spacetime. The one, many and all
consciousness includes separation and everything therein. The Sovereign Integral is the
one and the all, but when it lives in a human reality, within spacetime duality, the
Sovereign Integral becomes the many. It becomes neither a sovereign or an integral,
rather, it becomes a human or a porcupine or a whale or an oak tree or a honey bee. It
becomes these material embodiments. ”
"當它這樣做時，它失去了它的「對於 Sovereign Integral 的記憶」，而那個 Sovereign
Integral 意識則從 實相的最核心 在靜靜地看著。它觀察著分離的實相。它試著找到
方法來觸入「它的（碎形）sovereign自己 的人類實相」，而那個「人類的部分」然
後才能成為「sovereign 的世界 和 integral 的世界 之間的一座橋梁」。 "
“When it does this, it loses its memory of the Sovereign Integral, which quietly watches
from the very core of reality. It observes the reality of separation. It finds ways to reach
into the human reality of its sovereign self and that human part can then become a bridge
between the worlds of the sovereign and the integral. ”
"從某種意義上來說，是「群體」－－在各種團體裡的 碎形sovereign（the sovereign
within groups）－－引入了「個體」和「全體」並且讓它們在 碎形sovereign 之內變
成是互相連結的。當這件事完成了，人類才驗明了它自己是一個 Sovereign Integral，
而他們的行為自然地就會和「互相連結」對齊。他們不會拒絕「分離」，好像它是一
種較差的實相。相反地，他們會把「分離」視為是「創造 和 源頭 之間的橋樑」。"
“In a way, it is the many — the sovereign within groups — that introduces the one and
the all and allows them to become interconnected within the sovereign. When this is
done, the human identifies as a Sovereign Integral and their behavior is naturally aligned
to interconnectedness. They do not reject separation as if it were a lesser reality, instead,
they see separation as the bridge between creation and the source.”
那男的舉起了手。"如果那個變成了一幅畫的女人 實際上是一面鏡子，那麼這個故
事要如何和橋梁有關呢？"
The man raised his hand. “If the woman who became a painting was actually a mirror,
how does that story relate to a bridge?”
"鏡子代表 目前。這是它可以投射的唯一影像。鏡子沒有想像力。它對未來毫無感
覺。它對未來沒有任何投入。然而這幅畫，在另一方面來說，卻可以做任何事。它
沒有限制。它可以描繪出我們的想像。"
“The mirror represents the present. It is the only image it can cast. A mirror has no
imagination. It has no sense of the future. It has no investment in the future whatsoever.
The painting, on the other hand, can do anything. It has no limits. It can depict our
imagination. ”
"橋梁也是如此，它們是我們從鏡子中釋放出來的想像力。"
“So it is with bridges, they are our imaginations let loose from the mirror.”
女人停頓了一會兒，然後捧著雙手成杯狀，示意她想喝更多的水。那男的為沒有提
供水而道歉。他小心翼翼地從水壺裡倒水，然後自己也喝了一口。
The woman paused for a while and then cupped her hands, signaling her desire for more
water. The man apologized for not offering it. He carefully poured from the water jug, and
then took a sip himself.
"能量就是意識，就是那個 我們所有一切都是它的一部分的「個體、群體、和全體
意識」。然而，我們卻被允許去成為 獨立自主的。可以擁有我們自己的實相，去航
行於我們所創造的東西裡。"
“Energy is consciousness, the one, many and all consciousness, of which we are all a part.
Yet, we are permitted to be sovereign. To have our own reality, to navigate what we
create.”
"我想這是說得通的...... " 那男的承認。"只是，把某種邪惡、糟糕、醜陋或不公正的
東西，用想像力的魔杖在它頭上一揮，突然就要把它看成是一個相互連結的整體的
一部分， 感覺還是有些不對勁。" 他以一種表示不相信的方式聳了聳肩。
“I suppose it makes sense...” the man admitted. “It just doesn’t feel right to take
something evil or bad or ugly or unjust, and wave a magic wand of imagination over it,
and suddenly see it as part of a whole that is all interconnected.” He shrugged his
shoulders in a form of disbelief. ”
"為什麼？"
“Why?”
"因為如果我將邪惡視為也是整體的一部分，那麼我就是承認了邪惡是可以接受的。
作惡是有道理的。這難道不會讓我們的實相為邪惡創造出更多的空間嗎？
“Because if I see evil as part of a whole, then I am accepting that evil is okay. It is
defensible to be evil. And wouldn’t that only avail our reality to make more room for evil?”
"我們在這裡是為了經驗一個「表達之無限的舞台」，然後我們被賦予了自由意志可
以在那個世界裡創造。一旦那個世界看到的是相互連結，而不是分離，一種更精細
的平衡就可以在這兩種基本力量之間被創造出來。"
“We are here to experience an infinite stage of expression, and we are then given free will
to create within that world. Once that world sees interconnection instead of separation, a
finer balance can be created between these two, fundamental forces.”
她停頓了一下。"你說得沒錯，那些被貼上壞或惡的標籤的事物，也是「全體」的一
部分，但那個「全體」已經浸泡在時空二元性之混亂和泥濘的汙水裡了，它之所以
採納了分離，是因為倖存（的需求）顯得比 相互連結 更迫在眉睫、更強大。"
She paused for a moment. “You’re right, the things that are labeled bad or evil are part of
the all, but that all has been dipped in the confused and muddy waters of spacetime
duality, and it has adopted separation because survival looms with more immediacy and
power than interconnectedness.”
"所以，妳的意思是說，我們越是把道德的矛頭指向邪惡，排斥邪惡，邪惡就會變得
越強大？"
“So, you’re saying that the more we point the moral finger and ostracize evil, the stronger
evil becomes?”
"是的，那是我的觀點。邪惡源於分離。人類越能感知到自己與生命之間的相互連結，
邪惡就越能消退到一種平衡狀態，不再那麼強烈和極端。它就會變得像一個會咬人
的惱人的東西，雖然咬起來很痛，但它的刺痛感只是一瞬間的事，所以很容易就會
過去和放下。"
“Yes, that is my perspective. Evil stems from separation. The more humanity perceives its
interconnectedness with life, then the more evil will recede into an equilibrium where it is
not as strong and extreme. It will become like an annoyance that bites hard, but whose
sting is felt for only a matter of moments, so it is easy to move on and forgive. ”
"這對你來說不符合邏輯嗎？"
“Is this not logical to you?”
"不會啊......但愛或善的問題還是存在。如果邪惡被置於一種更緊密的平衡之內，那
麼愛和善不是也會減少嗎？因為正如妳說的，它們會同樣地被表現出來。"
“It is...but there remains the issue of love or goodness. If evil is brought within a tighter
equilibrium, then would not love and goodness also be reduced, because as you said, they
are equally represented?”
"但你又來了，你把互相連結看成是好的，分離看成是邪惡的。而我說的是，那些把
像「互相連結」與「分離」這麼根本的兩個東西分開的圍牆，它們必須被拆掉。兩
者是一體的，而把它們分開只會使我們困惑，並因此而生活在混亂之中。"
“But there you go again, you have seen interconnection as good, and separation as evil.
And I am saying that those walls that separate those two things, as elemental as
interconnectedness and separation are, well, they must be torn down. The two are one,
and to separate them is to confuse ourselves, and thus live in confusion. ”
"但是，在時空二元性裡的，結合起來的「互相連結」與「分離」，可以被看作是一
部車輛，而所有的時空的顯化，可以被看作是那部車輛的「集體駕駛員」。在平衡的
狀態下，駕駛員可以把車輛駛向「相互連結」。在不和諧的狀態下，駕駛員會把車輛
駛向「分離」。"
“However, the conjoined interconnectedness and separation, in spacetime duality, can be
looked upon as a vehicle and all spacetime manifestation, as the collective driver of that
vehicle. In equilibrium, the driver can steer the vehicle towards interconnection. In
disharmony, the driver can steer the vehicle towards separation. ”
"我們可以這樣想，" 她繼續說道。"在我們的核心，我們是一種東西；在我們的表層，
我們是另一種東西。我們是生活在一個身體裡的兩種生物。我們的核心是意識，我
們的表層是人性－－由我們的身體、腦力、心、自我和潛意識所代表。我們的意識
部分與「那個為一切事物提供動力的場域 之 能量」相連。我們的人性部分與「分離
的文化」相連。"
“We could imagine it this way,” she continued. “At our core, we are one thing; at our
surface, we are another. We are two creatures who live in one body. We are
consciousness at our core, and we are humanness at our surface — represented by our
body, mind, heart, ego, and subconscious. The consciousness part of us is connected to
the energy of the field that powers everything. The humanness part of us is connected to
the culture of separation."
"這些構成了基本的二元性，所有其他的二元性都由此而產生。這種基本的二元性就
是我們的實相。它是如此地融入到我們的實相裡了，以致於我們甚至看不到它。生
活在一個身體裡的兩種生物需要成為合作夥伴，它們需要找到一種新的對齊方式，
一顆新的北極星，來讓它們互相連結。它們需要去看到，「分離的文化」已經把它們
的想像力削弱了，它們已經無法想像作為「個體、群體、和全體意識」的一部分，
它們的力量有多大了。"
“These comprise the fundamental duality, out of which all other dualities arise. This
fundamental duality is our reality. It is so baked into our reality that we do not even see it.
The two creatures that live in one body need to become partners. They need to find a
new alignment, a new North Star of interconnectedness. They need to see that the culture
of separation has left them diminished in imagining their power as a part of the one,
many and all consciousness. ”
"這種削弱使它們變得依賴、批判、焦慮和掙扎，而與此同時，它們還有著這另外一
種生物——意識——本可以拯救他們。"
"意識本來可以拯救它們......"
"意識可以拯救它們......"
"意識將會拯救它們......"
"意識已經拯救過它們了。"
“And this diminishment has left them dependent and judgmental and anxious and
struggling, and all the while they had this other creature — consciousness — that could
have saved them. ”
"That would have saved them...
"That can save them...
"That will save them...
"That has saved them."
那男的望著遠方，陷入了沉思。突然，他仿佛醒了過來。"它本來能以什麼方式拯救
它們呢？意識怎麼能拯救任何東西呢？它又不是物質性的。"
The man looked far away, lost in his thoughts. And then suddenly it was as if he woke up.
“In what way would it have saved them? How can consciousness save anything? It isn’t
material.”
"意識是那個「統一場」的一部分，" 她回答說。"合一（的領域）是「集體的能量」
之力量 存在 和 運動 並且 擁有它的實相 的地方。而它的實相包含了這個實相－－人
類實相，而人類實相集中於時空的一個片刻裡。"
“Consciousness is part of that field of unity,” she replied. “Unity is where the power of
collective energy lives and moves and has its reality. And its reality encompasses this
reality — the human reality, which is centered in a moment of spacetime.”
"妳說......包含，是什麼意思？"他問。
“How do you mean...encompasses?” he asked.
"意識的實相，作為「統一場」，是力量存在的地方。你可以把這種力量帶進人類實
相來促進對於「互相連結」的理解，或是你也可以使用這種力量來推動對於「分離」
的理解。一邊擴展到 Sovereign Integral；而另一邊集中於「個體 」－－在人性裡的
個人，那裡是分離最強烈和最被提倡的地方。"
“The reality of consciousness, as the field of unity, is where the power lives. You can bring
this power into human reality to advance the understanding of interconnectedness, or
you can use this power to advance the understanding of separation. One expands to the
Sovereign Integral; and the other centers upon the one — the individual in humanness
where separation is strong and promoted. ”
"它們（譯註：上述的兩種發展）在表面上有著一種二元性的關係，但在核心上卻是
合一的。那就像呼吸一樣。有一種節奏存在著，而它不需要思想、意志、技巧、或
努力。吸氣和呼氣有著不同的功能，朝著完全不同的方向移動，卻有著相同的目的，
就是要讓我們活著。沒有它們中的任何一個，我們就會滅亡。「個體、群體、和全體
意識」包含了呼吸的行為。它包含了所有的一切因為那就是它的本質。那不是一個
被創造出來或被贏得的選擇，那就是一個現實，一個實相。"
“They have a relationship of duality at their surface but unity at their core. It is like
breathing. There is a rhythm and it does not require thought, will, technique or effort. The
inbreath has a different function than the outbreath, moving in entirely different
directions, yet they share the same purpose, to keep us alive. Without both, we perish.
The one, many and all consciousness envelopes the act of breathing. It envelopes all
things because that is what it is. It isn’t a choice created or earned, it is a reality.”
"那麼妳是在說，我們（譯註：的核心）活在多重實相中，而（譯註：對我們的表層
來講）只有一個是真實存在的？"那男的問。
“Then you’re saying that we’re living in multiple realities and only one is real?” the man
asked.
"是的。" 她歎了口氣，坐到環繞著井口的奶油色石灰石塊上。"當你有了關係，就會
產生一種紐帶（bond）。這種紐帶的特性就是，隨著時間的推移，兩者之間的區別會
變得不是那麼重要，而「共同的時間和經驗」是對於一種「共同的感知」之輸入，
這就產生了紐帶。人類實相 被接合到（is bonded to）了「個體、群體、和全體意識」
的實相。由於「互相連結」和「分離」的這種基本的二元性，它們（人類實相 與
「個體、群體、和全體意識」的實相）在時空裡有著一種關係。"
“Yes.” She sighed and sat on the cream-colored limestone blocks that encircled the well.
“When you have a relationship it creates a bond. The quality of that bond, over time, is
that the distinctions between the two become less important, and the shared time and
experience are the inputs to a shared perception, which creates the bond. The reality of
the one, many and all consciousness is what human reality is bonded to. They have a
relationship in spacetime as a result of that fundamental duality of interconnectedness
and separation. ”
"每個物種（或族類）和「自己的實相」與「合一的實相」都有著獨特的關係。這是
DNA裡所固有的。當我們成為一個物種的一部分時，我們學習如何生存，而從這種
學習中我們成為了一個獨立的實體。以我們的情況來說，就是人性的一個個體。一
個分離的個體，而帶有一種關係：二元性。"
“Each species has its own relationship with its reality and the reality of unity. This is
inherent in DNA. As we become part of a species, we learn how to survive, and from this
learning we become a separate entity. In our case, an individual of humanness. An
individual of separation with one relationship: duality. ”
"藉由時空二元性，我們每一個人都會學習到，在那些二元性的力量中，如何以一個
Sovereign Integral 的身分來活出我們的生命。而在這段旅程中的某一個點上，我們會
渴望把「互相連結的核心實相」推動至「分離的表面實相」之上。這變成了一個有
意識的選擇。而當這個選擇被做出了，我們就能把我們的心和腦力結合起來，把它
們融入那個目標中。而當這被完成了，我們所創造出來的那些體現，就會促進「互
相連結」。它們成為了合一的倡導者。"
“We each learn, through spacetime duality, how to live our lives as a Sovereign Integral
among the forces of duality. And at some point within that journey we desire to advance
the core reality of interconnectedness over the surface reality of separation. It becomes a
conscious choice. And when this choice is made, we can bring our heart and mind
together, fusing them in that purpose. And when this is done, the embodiments that we
create advance interconnectedness. They become exponents of unity.”
那男的冷笑了一下，轉向女人。"妳真的認為人們會想要理解這麼......這麼抽象的東
西嗎？你所分享的東西在我們的日常生活中其實並不重要吧？也許核心和表面是同
一件事，就如妳說的那樣，但表面才是每個人生命中真正重要的，否則那些困難而
緊迫的事情......它們只會變得更加艱難。"
The man scoffed a bit and turned to the woman. “Do you really think that people want to
understand such...such abstract things? The things you share don’t really matter in our
day-to-day life? Maybe the core and the surface are one thing, as you say, but the surface
is what matters in everyone’s life, otherwise the things that are hard and pressing...they
only get harder.”
"我們的日常生活就是這樣，"那女人回答。"我們只是沒有被教導如何以合一的方式
來認識我們的核心和表面實相，然後在我們的生命中實踐這種合一。如果我們這樣
做了，表面的實相就會反映出在我們核心內的實相，而在我們的那個核心裡，是最
重要的東西，在那裡，我們同時既是一個 Sovereign 也是一個 Integral。"
“It is our day-to-day life,” the woman answered. “We just haven’t been taught how to
recognize our core and surface realities in unity, and then live this unity in our lives. If we
did this, the reality at the surface would reflect the reality within our core, and in that
core of us, is the thing that matters, where we are both a sovereign and an integral at
once.”
"但是我們的老師，甚至整個社會，總是告訴我們，我們是罪人，如果不是罪人，那
麼我們內心的深處也是野獸，僅此而已。妳正在重新定義我們的核心。那妳有什麼
證據呢？妳如何證明我們的核心不是我們一直以來被教導的那樣呢？”
“But our teachers, even entire societies, have always told us that we are sinners, and if
not sinners, then we are animals deep inside, and nothing more. You’re redefining our
core. And what proof do you have? How do you prove that our core is not what we have
been taught?”
"核心是活在一個生物裡面的意識。但這不是一個我們曾經看過、聽過、理解過、認
識過或記得的生物。因此，我們不知道這個生物是什麼--"
“The core is a consciousness that lives within a creature. But this is not a creature that we
have ever seen, heard, understood, realized or remembered. And thus, we do not know
what this creature is–”
"等一下，"那男的打斷她的話。"為什麼妳一直稱它叫生物？當你用這個詞來描述它
時，它讓我們的核心聽起來很危險。"
“Hold on a moment,” the man interrupted. “Why do you keep calling it a creature? It
makes our core sound dangerous when you use that word to describe it.”
“「生物」只是一個詞，我使用它是因為它暗示著某種不可歸類的東西。有時我只
是稱我們自己的這個核心為「一個東西」，然而，「東西」這個名詞並不意味著一種
活生生的智能，不是嗎？而在我們核心的這個東西，嗯，它既是非常有生命力的，
又是非常有智能的。只是在它之內甚至沒有一粒我們表面實相的微粒存在。它是，
嗯，它就像是一個存在於全體和合一的世界裡的 sovereign 身份，當它進入時空的二
元性時，它樂意放棄這種記憶，以支持位於表面的實相。”
“Creature is just a word I use because it implies something uncategorical. Sometimes I just
call this core of ourselves, a thing, however, that noun doesn’t imply a living intelligence,
does it? And that thing at our core, well, it’s both very much alive and intelligent. It just
doesn't have even one particle of our surface reality within it. It is, um, it’s like a sovereign
identity that lives in a world of allness and unity, and when it enters spacetime duality, it
willingly forgoes this memory, in favor of the reality at the surface. ”
"「生物」也是一個好詞，因為它意味著某種自由、甚至是不可預測的東西，因為它
是自由的。野生生物不同於馴養的生物。表面世界試圖馴化我們的核心。要讓它符
合我們的人性。存在於核心的「我們自己的 sovereign 和 integral 部分」就是野生生
物，因為它們的意志源於一個不同的實相，而那個實相是互相連結的。"
“Creature is also a good word, because it implies something that is free and even
unpredictable, because it is free. A wild creature is different from a domestic creature.
The surface world seeks to domesticate our core. To make it fall in line with our
humanness. The sovereign and the integral parts of ourselves, that dwell at the core, are
wild creatures, because their will stems from a different reality, and that reality is
interconnected."
"在某種程度上，它確實是一種動物，但「個體、群體、和全體意識」並不是一個你
可以看得到的身體，原因很簡單，有誰能看見全部的整體呢？你必須處於它的外部，
一旦你處於它的外部，那麼你就不是全體的一部分了。你已經創造了一個新的世界，
現在你就存在於那裡。"
“In a way, it is an animal, but the one, many and all consciousness is not a body that you
can see, for the simple reason, how can anyone see the whole of all? You would have to
be outside of it, and once you are outside of it, then you are not part of allness. You have
created a new world, and now you live there.”
"我還是不喜歡 生物 這個詞。"
“I still don’t like the word creature.”
"那就提出一個更好的詞吧。"
“So suggest a better word.”
"你說，Sovereign 和 Integral，個體 和 全體，構成了我們的核心。"
“You said that the sovereign and the integral, the one and the all, constitute our core.”
她點了點頭。
She nodded.
"那為什麼不稱這個核心為，Sovereign Integral？"
“Then why not call this core, the Sovereign Integral?”
"這說起來有點拗口..." 她從嘴角輕輕地嘀咕道。
“It’s a mouthful...” she remarked out of the corner of her lips.
"那麼，把它簡稱為 SI 吧，"他建議。
“So, shorten it to SI,” he suggested.
"如果這對你有幫助的話，我會同意你的提議。"
“I will agree to your proposal, if it helps you.”
"我覺得有。這讓我感覺，我們從詩歌走向了哲學。而我其實並沒有詩人的眼光。"
“I think it does. It gives me the impression that we just went from poetry to philosophy. I
don’t really have a poet’s eye.”
"那就 SI 吧," 她讓步，接著繼續說道："SI... 在我們的整個生命中，我們從來沒有體
驗過那種意識。這就像從我們生活了一輩子的洞穴深處走出來，然後，剎那間，我
們發現自己飛翔在雲層之上。你不會有從這個實相到另一個實相的任何視覺線索。"
“SI it is,” she relented, and in the next breath continued. “The SI...we have never
experienced that consciousness in our entire life. It would be like walking from the depths
of a cave that we have lived in all of our life, and then, in an instant, we found ourselves
flying above the clouds. You would have not a single visual thread from that reality to the
other. ”
"人類經驗 和 SI經驗 之間的差異比這個還要大得多。SI 是一個獨立的物種。通靈術、
星光體旅行、藥物引起的幻覺、清醒夢；這些都是在 人類所創造出來的 替代的實相
中發生的。這些實相是每個物種所特有的，這會讓你對這些 實相的次元 到底多浩瀚
有了一些概念。然而，SI 又有它自己的一套實相，這些實相與任何時空二元性的人
類織物都沒有共同的線索。"
“The difference between the human and the SI experience is far greater. SI is its own
species. The psychic arts, astral traveling, the drug-induced hallucination, the lucid dream;
those are all happening in alternative human-created realities. These realities are specific
to each species, which gives you some idea of how vast these dimensions of reality really
are. Yet, the SI has its own set of realities, and those realities share no threads with the
human fabric of any spacetime duality."
"我努力想要表達的是，當我們被體現在時空二元性裡時，我們並不知道自己是什麼。
正因為如此，我們無法表現出我們的本性。當我們處於心與腦力之間的平衡狀態時，
我們所有人都會明白這一點。這就是我們對彼此感覺到的慈悲。我們明白，「互相連
結」與「分離」的二元性是我們想要玩的遊戲，而玩這種遊戲的唯一方式就是分離。
你從一個細胞分裂成兩個細胞，從四個細胞分裂成十六個細胞，一直分裂下去...... "
“What I am struggling to express is that we don't know what we are when we are
embodied in spacetime duality. And because of this we cannot behave as we are. And all
of us understand this when we are in that place of equipoise between the heart and mind.
This is the compassion we feel for one another. We understand that the duality of
interconnectedness and separation is the game we want to play, and the only way you
play that game is if you separate. You divide from one cell to two, from four to sixteen,
and on and on... ”
"在「群體」裡－－在眾多社會團體 和 隸屬的關係 中－－我們有著分離，而分離滋
生了衝突，衝突產生了需要學習的課程和需要理解的意義。每一個來到這個次元的
存在體都明白生命的這個基本面向。每一個人都以一個「清空了的背景」、一個「充
滿活力的核心」、再加上一種「不斷增強的稠密感」、以及一種「公民要遵守的基本
程式設定」 來開始。"
“Within the many — the social groups and affiliations — we have separation, which
breeds conflict which creates lessons to learn and meanings to understand. Every single
being who comes into this dimension understands this fundamental aspect of life. Every
one begins with a fresh slate, a vibrant core coupled to a growing sense of density and an
underlying program developed for citizen compliance. ”
"然而，正是所有的這些情況使得我們能夠學習和理解分離。（學習和理解）分離最
終可以如何被運用，從而使人類在與分離的平衡中表達出他們的相互連結感。這件
事的出現不是為了消滅分離。它的出現是為了分享、合作和管理分離的奇思妙想。
這是在時空二元性中的合作，而這正是將要發生的事情，但沒有人知道會如何發生
或何時會發生。"
“However, it is all of those things that enable the learning and understanding of
separation. Of how separation can ultimately be put to a use whereby humanity expresses
their sense of interconnectedness in a balance with separation. It is not coming to
vanquish separation. It is emerging to share and partner and steward the whims of
separation. It is a collaboration within spacetime duality, and this is precisely what will
happen, yet no one knows how or when.”
女人停頓了一下，示意年輕人再給她點水，而他也提供了。
The woman paused and motioned the young man for more water, which he provided.
她喝完後，點頭表示感謝。"生活在這樣的海拔高度，"她說，"......需要幾年時間來適
應稀薄的空氣，但你確實會適應的。然而，當你說很多話的時候，聲音還是會沙啞
的。它是如此的乾燥。你永遠不會完全適應。"
After she finished her drink, she nodded her gratitude. “Living in these altitudes,” she said,
“...it takes years to adjust to the thin air, but you do adjust. However, when you talk a lot
you still get hoarse. It’s so dry. You never quite adjust to that.”
男人點頭表示理解，然後他臉上浮現出困惑之色。“如果SI是一個獨立的物種，而
它在時空二元性中的實相與我們人類的現實不同，那麼就沒有交集了嗎？”
The man nodded his understanding, then a puzzled look crossed his face. “If the SI is a
separate species, and its realities within spacetime duality are different from our human
realities, is there no intersection?”
她點點頭。“這是個好問題。是的，總是會有重疊的實相存在著。那些點 就是不同
物種（或族類）的實相 交集的地方。必須有這種交集，否則把所有一切結合在一起
的 整體性 就不會存在。”
She nodded. “That is a fine question. Yes, there are always overlapping realities. Points
where an intersection exists between realities of species. There has to be, or there would
be no wholeness holding all things together.”
"那是什麼呢？"那男的急切地問。
“And what is it?” the man asked eagerly.
"嗯...... "她喃喃自語。"如果我能指給你看，你也看不到，所以收起你的期望吧。" 她
閉上眼睛，像石頭一樣動也不動。"對於實相的每一個點來說，交集的地方都是不同
的。它不是一個具體的東西。它是無限的。最接近的交點總是感覺，以及對相互連
結的想像。然而，我們必須同時意識到，我們的想像力正在駕馭我們的感覺和思想，
因此它可以成為這些交集處的探照燈。"
“Hmm...” she murmured. “If I could point to it, you would not see it, so put away your
hope.” She closed her eyes and turned as still as a stone. “The place of intersection is
different for every point of reality. It is not one thing. It is an infinite thing. The closest
intersection is always the feeling, and the imaginative envisioning of interconnectedness.
However, we must at the same time, realize that our imagination is harnessing our
feelings and thoughts, so it can become a searchlight for these intersections. ”
"我們收集 SI 的一些碎片，並在我們的世界裡重新建構它們。然後，我們指著我們
所創造的這一個重建物，認為我們的 SI 形象 就是每個人都應該看到、都應該相信、
都應該崇拜和讚美的。但是，這些碎片拼湊在一起並不能顯示出整體。她突然向外
張開雙臂。"整體永遠無法進入這些時空二元性的世界裡，就像你無法進入單細胞原
蟲的家一樣。"
“We gather pieces of the SI and reconstruct them in our world. Then we point to this
reconstruction that we have created, thinking our image of the SI is what everyone should
also see, should also believe, should also worship and adulate. But these pieces cannot be
put together and show the whole thing.” She suddenly spread her arms outward. “The
whole thing will never enter these worlds of spacetime duality, anymore than you can
enter the home of an amoeba.”
她停頓了一下，睜開眼睛。"你明白嗎？"
She paused and opened her eyes. “Do you understand?”
"也許有一點......至少比我以前明白得多了。"
“Perhaps a little...more than I did before, at least.”
他歎了口氣。"每個物種都有自己的現實世界－－甚至是自己的夢的世界、星光體和
腦力的世界？這些其他的次元全都是不同的，在宇宙中無處不在？怎麼可能有任何
腦力......可以理解這一切的範疇？"他開始慢慢搖頭，感到難以置信。
He sighed. “Every species has its own realities — even their own dreamworld and astral
and mind worlds? These other dimensions are all different, everywhere in the universe?
How could any mind...grasp the scope of this?” He began to slowly shake his head in
disbelief.
"不可能，這就是我的觀點。"
“It cannot, and that is my point.”
"所以甚至不用去嘗試了？這就是答案嗎？"
“So don’t even try? Is that the answer?”
“如果我們一直在追逐 SI 的影子和那些瞬息萬變的交集點，我們將會像彈珠一樣地
在我們的實相中彈跳。然而，我們有幸能夠想像它，並以最大的能力來體驗它。這
樣做時，我們可以將 SI 從我們的核心提取出來，並且把它表達在我們的表層，我想
言辭可能是最容易表達它的方式。”
“If we are always chasing the SI’s shadows and ephemeral points of intersection, we will
be bouncing around our realities like a pinball. Yet, we are privileged to imagine it and
experience it to our highest capacity. In doing this, we can draw the SI from our core and
express it at our surface, and I suppose words are the easiest way to express it.”
"所以言辭就成了證明...... "那男的說，彷彿一團火已經熄滅了。
“So words become the proof...” the man said, as if a fire had died out.
“言辭有力量。它們將我們與那個場域連結在一起。從我們的核心升起的言辭與我
們在表層找到的言辭是不同的。後者是「群體」的言辭。言辭引導我們擴展，或者
引導我們走向個體的人性和分離。但它們是引導者，不要弄錯了。”
“Words have power. They connect us to the field. Words that arise from our core are
different from the words we find at our surface. Those are words of the many. Words
guide us to expansion or they guide us to individual humanness and separation. But they
are guides, make no mistake about it.”
"你的話感覺不像是來自核心。"
“Your words don’t feel like they come from the core.”
"為什麼？"
“Why?”
“核心是一切起源的地方，而一切從那裡往外擴散，最終在表層顯化出來。核心是
一個單一的點。所以表層更大，而核心...很小。妳的言辭並不感到微小。它們感覺
比我在市場、工作場所或餐桌上聽到或讀到的言辭更宏大。”
“The core is the place where everything originates, and from there it spreads out —
ultimately, to a manifested surface. The core is a single point. So the surface is larger and
the core is...tiny. Your words don’t feel small. They feel larger than the words I hear or
read in the marketplace or workplace or my dinner table.”
"但是你看，核心是把你，和所有一切相互連結起來的東西。它並不微小。它就是
「全體」。"
“But you see, the core is the thing that interconnects you, to the all. It is not tiny. It is the
All.”
"那麼......證據是什麼？"他問道。
“Then...what is the proof?” he asked.
"每個人都想要證據，" 她舉起雙手大聲喊道，"好像證據就應該要給他們似的！它應
該是顯而易見的。每當我看鏡子時，它都應該在裡面。它應該在我生命的每一個轉
折處等著向我展示它自己。它不會這樣運作，也不會按照我們的要求這樣運作。那
個東西，那個生物，那個不可知的全體，那個 Sovereign Integral，它希望在一個與它
分離的世界裡保持為隱藏的和未知的。而因為我們是源頭，所以我們是一致同意
的。”
“Everyone wants proof,” she exclaimed loudly, throwing up her hands, “as if it should just
be given to them! It should be obvious. It should be in the mirror whenever I look. It
should be waiting to present itself to me at every turn of my life. It does not work this way,
and it does not work this way at our request. That thing, that creature, that unknowable
allness, that Sovereign Integral, it desired to be hidden and unknown in a world that is
separate from it. And because we are source, we are aligned in agreement.”
"但是沒有證據......我們就只是信徒而已啊，" 他搖著頭說。"信徒們總是迷失在自己
的信仰中，總是在尋找下一個驗證，驗證宇宙或任何人想稱為的那個生物......那個 SI，
有在傾聽他們的祈禱。如果真有一個神靈，而我們稱它為上帝，不請求它實現我們
的願望，那我們就是白癡。對吧？"
“But without proof...we are simply believers,” he said, shaking his head. “And believers
have always been lost in their faith, always seeking the next validation that the universe or
whatever anyone wants to call that creature...that SI, is listening to their prayers. If there
was a genie, and we called it God, we would be idiots not to ask it to give us our wishes.
Right?”
"是的，在某種程度上，你是對的。"她的回答讓他吃了一驚。"但神靈就是我之前提
過的統一場，藉由我們的核心，這個場域是可以接取的。而我們的核心也是可以接
取的，當我們將心與腦力接合，來把這種互相連結性帶到我們實相的表層－－我們
的人性就生存在那裡－－時。而在時空二元性裡的這種過程，就成了我們的證據。
我們所創造的那些體現，不僅是我們的證據，也是我們都是其一部分的那整個統一
場（存在）的證據。"
“Yes, in a way, you’re right,” she answered to his surprise. “But the genie is the field of
unity I spoke of earlier, and that field is accessible through our core. And our core is
accessible when we fuse our heart and mind to bring this interconnectedness to the
surface of our reality, where our humanness lives. And this process, in spacetime duality,
becomes our proof. The embodiments we create are not only our proof, but proof to the
entire field of unity of which we are all a part.”
那男的移開了視線，深邃的目光仿佛在尋找新的地平線。"我們為什麼要費心從我們
的核心實相中挖掘文字呢？這不是已經被做過無數次了嗎？我們為什麼要分享這些
言語或行為，或甚至我們的思想和情感呢？為什麼？"
The man looked away, deepening his eyes as if they sought a new horizon. “Why do we
bother to mine the words from our core reality? Hasn’t this been done before, like a
million times? Why do we share these words or actions or even our thoughts and feelings?
Why?”
面對他的疑惑，女人笑了。"在一百年內。一千年內。一萬年內。你不認為人類還是
會以他們所採取的任何形式來挖掘這些表達，並且將它們呈現在他們的時空的媒體
上嗎？你看，媒介變了，訊息也就變了。我們的意識在發展，因此訊息也在發展。
對於合一和分離來說情況都是這樣。只要有時空二元性存在，就會有媒介和訊息的
演變。"
The woman smiled at his wonderment. “In a hundred years. In a thousand years. In ten
thousand years. Do you not think that there will be humans mining these expressions in
whatever form they take, and presenting them on the media of their spacetime? You see,
the medium changes, and therefore the message changes. Our consciousness evolves and
therefore the message evolves. This is as true for unity as it is for separation. As long as
there is spacetime duality, there will be this evolution of medium and message. ”
"總是有那些藝術家、詩人、作家、科學家、哲學家和智者會出現。這是不可避免的。
而那些選擇分離的人，他們成為那些選擇互相連結的人返回的原因。而那些選擇互
相連結的人，也成為那些選擇分離的人返回的原因。這全都是在「二元性的這兩個
基本元素」之間的一場非常盛大的舞蹈，以及它們如何透過一個物種（或族類）來
表達他們自己。”
“There will always be artists, poets, writers, scientists, philosophers, and intelligences yet
to come. This is inevitable. And those who choose separation, they become the reason
that those who choose interconnectedness return. And those who choose
interconnectedness, they become the reason that those who choose separation return. It
is all a very large dance between these two fundamental elements of duality, and how
they express themselves through a species.”
"這感覺起來非常重要，" 那男的說。"我的意思是......妳說的話對我的一部分來說是
有意義的。而另一部分，也許是更大的那部分，向我搖動手指頭說：不要被這種抽
象的事所吸引。它不會帶你到任何你需要去的地方。”
“It feels so fundamental,” the man said. “I mean...what you say makes sense to a part of
me. And another part, perhaps the larger, wags its finger at me and says: Do not be drawn
into this abstraction. It leads nowhere that you need to be.”
"那就聽它的吧，"她說。
“Then listen to it,” she said.
"妳的意思是就不管了？"
“You mean walk away?”
"是啊。"
“Yes.”
"但我的一部分仍然渴望著。它仍然想理解這一切。只要知道究竟是發生了什麼事，
以及為什麼會這樣，還有這一切到底與我有什麼關係，就會是一種很大的解脫了。
這不是很有意義嗎？"
“But a part of me still hungers. It still wants to understand it all. It would be a big relief just
to know what is really happening and why, and how it all pertains to me. Doesn’t that
make sense?”
他的眼神在昏暗的燈光下閃爍著期待的光芒。。
He looked with expectant eyes that glistened in the dim light.
"原來這些石頭真的像我想的那麼堅硬啊。" 她微笑著。那女的指著遠處一個隱約可
見的結構。"我們到那棵松樹下坐坐，享受一下它柔軟的松針地毯吧。我會在那裡試
著回答你的問題。"
“It turns out that these stones are as hard as I thought they would be.” She smiled. The
woman pointed to a hazy structure that loomed in the distance. “Let’s go sit under that
pine tree and enjoy its soft carpet of pine needles. I’ll attempt to answer your question
there.