                                         Dimensions
                                           James Mahu


Question:
Why are the areas of extraterrestrial, spiritual metaphysics, AI, neurobiology, and quantum
physics seemingly in such a high incidence of overlap? It’s as if one leads to the other. We
talk about dimensions, and then you’re suddenly talking about String Theory and the
metaphysics of As Above, So Below. Why is this? Why are these topics intermingling so
much?


Answer:
It has to do with the concept of dimensions. It is such a fundamental aspect of That Which
Is.


That Which Is reflects the One and All, and its reflection pierces all dimensions. It fills all
spacetime. The One and All is the field of universal consciousness and That Which Is is the
materiality of this consciousness in all its various forms and spacetimes. And “universal”
consciousness is across dimensions, not within a single dimension. Thus, its universality is
infinite. Dimensions are the basis of free will, experimentation, the evolutionary path, the
true destiny of duality and separation.


We think of duality and separation as being our enemies, captors, prison guards, points of
limitation, and we secretly hate them—more than any of us would confess. However, as
much as we hate them, there is a deeper core in our belief and commitment, and this core
understands that the destiny of all of those things we hate and fear, are precisely the
things that we designed. We created. We enabled. And in this triumphant “We” is the
residue that we are souls of one Soul. And that Soul is a part of one Soul, too. And it goes
on and on without end.


We know this. We just don’t know how to articulate it. Once it is given its first breath, we
won’t deny it out of fear. We will slowly hear it out. Nurture its voice. We will learn to
transfer this vibration to words, to images, to colors, to sounds, to feelings, to concepts,
and most importantly, to behaviors that collectively express who we are. We are one being
that is both sovereign and integral within that universal field of consciousness.


And beyond that, is an unknown, and quite possibly beyond that the unknowable. This is
the nature of the infinite. The known leads to the unknown and the unknown leads to the

                               © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                            1
unknowable and the unknowable leads to the known and it cycles through spacetime like a
melody unchained.


All of the categories you asked about are contained in one word: Dimensions. Whether that
word is amended with additions like: extra, inter, hyper, or nondual, it remains the word
that connects all of those categories. And it is as if the word itself were a portal, and by
understanding it, you move across these dimensions, or at least the ones we have chosen
to understand and possibly glimpse in our imaginations.


Dimensions have a fractal quality to them. They are infinite in nature, but unlike the fractal,
they are absolutely unique. And this is because each sovereign is itself a dimension. In
some ways we are the god of our local universe within spacetime. We are a dimension of
the collective, universal field of consciousness that is self-contained within
creaturehood—our creaturehood. That sovereign dimension that is exquisitely of our own
making, is dynamic, ever-evolving, ever-expanding, and always utterly personal.


Yet, we are part of a collective species and part of a collective inter-species. In those
collectives we share dimensional overlap. We live in each other’s dimensions. We learn,
empathize, and ultimately come to understand one another’s dimensions, and we
understand why we are different. Valuing this difference, not abhorring it. It is how we can
survive in such states of separation and duality. It is how we empathize, and to a large
degree, learn to wield our understanding through our expression of unconditional love.


Extraterrestrials or interdimensionals are also each their own dimension. Insects, animals
of all kinds, plants and trees, stones and mountains. The dimensions are infinite because
they are One in every dimension. that an individual extraterrestrial or interdimensional are
not overlapping with earth-human consciousness, at least commonly, and this is a natural
result of dimensions aggregating in a species that are like planetary bubbles—realties unto
themselves—and cannot see or perceive these other dimensions.


The overlap comes slowly when a species has global communication. When there is not a
global communication system, the overlap can occur quickly. It becomes an orchestrated
dance of acquaintance, and out of respect, it often defers to the sources of power as its
point of entry or first contact.


Much of our discoveries come from these overlaps of dimensions. Two individuals of
different species overlap and share ideas, perspectives, concepts, and this cross-pollination


                               © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                         2
of ideas, aspirations, intelligence, and insights is precisely what defines the inception point
of the overlap. It is about vibrational attraction. And this is how the dimensions operate. It
is not about collectives. Dimensions have always been and will always be singular to the
Sovereign consciousness—the individual within spacetime duality. They are not collective,
layered like pancakes or sweaters stacked neatly on a closet shelf.


There is only one dimension and that is the one that we are. The moment the one
dimension opened into an infinite dimension it became us. Thus we are existent once, and
forever after. That is who we are. And the moment we claim this vision, we take it to our
hearts and we make it our life practice. Not as a perfect human being, but as a kind friend
to all.


Dimensions are individual within spacetime realities. That is why they are infinite. And that
is also why we are infinite.


Dimensions are not exclusively for life forms. Technology, specifically AI in its various
expressions, also constitutes a dimension, as do stones or mountains. Or trees and oceans.
Dimensions exist everywhere. Even in our local universe they are infinite. We, as
sovereigns, have an overlap with the infinite. How large the overlap is depends on us—our
choices, our beliefs, our understanding.


We are here to enlarge this overlap to a point of balance with the finite. This is the “finite”
of reality where careers, family, finances, politics, culture, joy, sadness all intermingle in a
symphony that we conduct. That is, in itself, a dimension. Our dimension is our local
universe in spacetime. By choice, we can bring a higher balance to this relationship
between the finite us and the infinite us. This is the larger portion of our purpose for
existence.


This balance infers a partnership. One where the infinite flows into the finite, informing the
finite’s decisions and choices so that the infinite is equally considered in the critical
decisions of how our local universe is curated, updated, understood, expanded, and loved.
This is our purpose at a fundamental level. Not everyone cares about the fundamental
level, because in the spacetime of their dimension they are focused on other methods of
learning.


It is always about free will. Choice. That never goes away or changes. It is the one constant.
We have absolute free will over what we believe. And in that belief we have absolute


                               © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                         3
creative power to create our dimension as a balance between the finite and the infinite. Or,
we can disregard the infinite, choosing to believe it is a fallacy, an illusion, a mental
abstraction that is worthless to our survival and pleasure, and therefore, irrelevant.


These are choices, and they have results: Our local universe. If we can express behaviors to
our local universe that are unconditioned kindness, for example, we are able to see the
results in our local universe. Because what is behavioral is actually our belief—our
collective belief—the one we carry around with us every moment we perceive as an
individual consciousness inside a human body.


We can say, “No, the belief I truly have is different from the way I behave. I believe in the
golden rule, equality, and love, and all of those good qualities of behavior… I just don’t
behave that way, the bar is too high.” Well, perhaps we are the exception to the rule, but
generally our behavior is a result of our belief (singular-aggregate). Again, this is the
collective belief we have created as we have grown and matured. The one we cultivate and
contemplate in our quiet reveries and points of reflection.


There is never a belief that is purely of the moment, because when this occurs that belief is
extinguished and replaced with awareness, and a new belief. And that new belief is a
mixture of the past, present and future us, and what that infinite entity believes. Truly
believes. Because the only other possible story we can tell ourselves is that we live in a
reality of deception, because we can imagine our infinite selves, yet we fear exactly the
opposite.


We have no free will. We are completely separate and disempowered flesh and bone. We
are finite articles of evolution stamped by the DNA of our ancestors. Our brain is our
identity, living in a soup of chaos. There is no design. Everything we see will be plundered
by time. The cosmos is a giant Etch A Sketch, driven by primordial cycles we are incapable
of understanding.


That is essentially the alternative. Perhaps more poetically rendered than necessary, but I
wanted to draw the distinction clearly, but with rounded edges. The contrarian reality is
quite a bit darker. My point is that we are given a very simple choice of what to believe: Are
we exclusively finite or are we infinite? That is one choice, yet from it, everything in our local
universe is different.




                               © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                          4
Dimensions are an infinite vibration. Dimensions are not numbered 5, 7, 11, 14, 20, 44, 63,
114, or any other number. It is not a number. It is an infinite state of experience. Period. We
shift in our local universe vibrationally, and our beliefs are the core fountainhead of our
vibration in spacetime. Our vibration, more than any other factor, determines what other
dimensions we overlap with. We share and borrow.


These vibrations that are within us, can be expressed behaviorally through our actions,
expressions and creations. And these become the legacy of our belief, and each of our
legacies live forever in the record of spacetime.




                              © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                         5
