                           Embodying the Unifying Principle



Question:
Energy is a word that we all use every day, but it feels like it has so many different
definitions. You wrote a paper entitled, The Energetic Heart some years ago, and it was the
first time I thought of energy in that way. In terms of the Sovereign Path, what is energy?


Answer:
Energy is will. In the context of spacetime, it is free will. Energy, therefore, is free will in
spacetime duality. Why free will? Because it is either the decision or reaction to take action.
And without either one, there is no energy. There are different scales of energy, and this
continuum is vast, but at every scale, it remains an action of free will, even when those
actions are simply extensions of the laws of physics or science at large. These laws were
created by free will.


Energy is divided into different classes, but each of these is physical in dimension, that is to
say, they can be measured scientifically. These different classifications include: chemical
energy, mechanical energy, nuclear energy, gravitational energy, light energy, radiant
energy, sound energy, motion energy, thermal energy, and electrical energy.


These are all physical manifestations of energy from quantum to material that also occur at
a nonphysical level, which is to say, they exist in both physical and nonphysical universes.
The nonphysical is the cause of the inception point of free will, and the physical is the effect
of the action. Thus, the finite, material world is the creation of the infinite, nonphysical
worlds. This is how energy innately flows. However, physical energy interacts with other
forms of physical energy.


For example, gravitational energy interacts with light energy. Thus, while physical energy
has its source from nonphysical domains, it can interact with other physical energies, and
those interactions can rebound upon the nonphysical realms. This reverse interaction is
what creates the cycle of energy—its flow and dynamism.


This cycle is the way energy can specialize in form and function, adapting to the ongoing
evolution of the physical universe. You may have noticed that in the classifications I listed
earlier in this essay that they were missing biological energy, which is indeed odd, because



                                © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                            1
if we were to sum the energy of biological life forms on earth, we would see that this level
of energy is infinitely larger than any other form of planetary energy.


Biology is precisely where energy inhabits the physical realm with the strongest presence of
free will. Energy that is mechanical in nature, meaning that it follows the laws of physics;
that energy holds a diluted amount of free will. Its natural state is to follow mathematics. It
is to be predictable and stable. However, as previously stated, the laws of physics were
created from free will. The Prime Creator created a “stage” upon which biological life forms
could operate. This stage needed to be predictable in order for the biological life forms to
survive and reproduce, and thereby, evolve energy through free will.


However, when energy interacts with predictable energies, as each energy intermixes, it
gathers complexity, and this complexity begins to confound our abilities to predict it.
Weather patterns are like this, to name one obvious example.


The predictable, non-biologic forms of energy, as they become complex ecosystems
become unpredictable. And this unpredictability can be further confounded and influenced
by the energetic radiations of biology. Energy radiates. It moves in spacetime. As our
physicists have discovered, this movement is nonlocal, as much as it is local. And it is
entangled in some mysterious way.


We, as human beings, are both a finite being with physical borders we call skin, and a
battery that lasts about 75 years, on average. This finite self is where our physical energy
moves, and where free will directs this energy. However, this energy has a nonphysical
source, and this source is our Infinite Self. Our Infinite Self is consciousness, which is
energy, which is interconnected with our ultimate source of energy—our planet and sun.


Earth is truly a system. The physical earth system includes the sun. The nonphysical system
is the multiversal stage of the Prime Creator. The energies of this multiversal stage makes
biological life on earth part of this broader system. Each of us live in this same Infinite
System. Our causal energy is drawn from this “well.” It is the source of free will,
individuation and sovereignty as a state of consciousness. It contains our Infinite Self.


The Infinite System has five parts:
   ●   Local universe (individuated finite self)
   ●   Nonlocal multiverse
   ●   Infinite Self (individuated sovereign)


                               © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                         2
   ●   Infinite Being (planetary in nature)
   ●   Prime Creator (multiversal in nature)


And this Infinite System produces two outputs:
   ●   Source Intelligence that interconnects life (integral consciousness)
   ●   One Dimension that unifies life (integral stage)


The earth system, also referred to in these works, as the Infinite Being, is the transducer of
the multiversal energy from the Prime Creator, and it goes out to all physical life forms.
This biological energy is localized at a quantum level within each life form at its inception.
This quantum energy is then materialized over a gestational period of spacetime, powering
the DNA of that particular species, enabling physical birth. Throughout gestation, the
Infinite Self intermittently connects with the developing finite life form, assessing its
development and connecting with its mother’s and Earth's physical energy.


This inceptional energy can take the biological structure of an ant, a crow, an oak tree, a
dolphin, a butterfly, a cactus, a human, it doesn’t matter. The Infinite Being powers every
finite life form in biological expression upon earth, and it does this through the
consciousness of the life form. And as stated previously, the Infinite Self is individual,
sovereign consciousness.


Consciousness is another word for Infinite. Yet, consciousness radiates in different forms.
The planetary system (which includes the sun), constitutes the Infinite Being. This is the
localization of life on a planetary level. The Infinite Being is an energy node of a universal,
infinitely scaled, network of energy. And each of us, is a node within the Infinite Being, and
that is our Infinite Self. And that Infinite Self is our sovereign source of radiant energy. That
is where our finite self derives free will.


Thus, biological energy is free will in action taken by a life form. Energy is both local and
nonlocal, meaning it is both physical in its manifestation and energetic at its causative
levels. It also means that energy is both unpredictable, because of free will, and
predictable, because of the laws of physics. And this is true in theory, only so long as the
form of energy is singular and noninteractive. And is there anything in the universe that is
singular and noninteractive in a local spacetime?


The answer is “no.” So, using this logic, energy is unpredictable, because we live in complex
systems of spacetime duality. We are biological, and a facet of the Infinite Being at a


                                © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                         3
planetary-solar level. One day, we will be at a planetary-solar-galactic level. And later, one
day we will be at a galactic-universal level. And then a Universal-Multiversal level. The
energy shifts and evolves to encompass multiversal dimensions, which is its innate mode of
existence. The finest branch finds the deepest root.


That is when the finite and Infinite can blend into one consciousness, and remain in an
infinitely individuated, sovereign self, even within a biological life form with free will. This is
the evolution of energy through a biological life form. Energy is free will. Free will is our
choice to blend the Infinite with the finite. This “blending” is the partnership of free will
between our Infinite Self and our finite self.


This is how we, as individuals, evolve our personal energy. We organize and structure a
union of these two energies (finite and infinite).


What is the Unifying Principle that brings a union to finite and infinite states of
consciousness and being? It is to align our finite self (body, mind, emotions, ego, and
subconscious) to our Infinite Self in order to realize the Infinite System we all live within. We
see our purpose, as a finite and Infinite Self, to localize the Infinite System in spacetime
duality. That is the Unifying Principle, and until our finite self understands this Unifying
Principle, it is unable to blend wills with its Infinite Self.


Our Infinite Self is impeccable. It is not accustomed to compromise.


Therefore, it will not blend itself with the finite self until it recognizes that the finite self, in
application of its free will, chooses to become a partner with our acknowledged and
ever-present Infinite Self. It is an explicit choice taken with great commitment. To do
otherwise, we are simply testing our commitment and its value to our finite life. The
partnership must be welded together. Otherwise, its energy will not stay blended in service
to the Unifying Principle.


The Unifying Principle is perhaps the most important principle of biological consciousness,
and therefore energy, and therefore our finite self and its local universe.


This is not a game. There is no rush to be partners with our Infinite Self or to realize that we
are biological and can localize the Infinite System in spacetime duality. We are not
competing for a prize or recognition. No one holds a stopwatch to time our realization, and



                                 © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                            4
then compare our time with others. No one wins or loses. It is sovereign, internal, unique,
innovative, unpredictable, infinite and unfolds with unconditional love.


Though it is not a game, it is also not a sterile lab experiment. Nor is it a throw of the dice
that we exist as a sovereign representative of every level of the multiversal reality that
exists in every dimension of spacetime. It is a very honorable purpose to realize the
Unifying Principle and localize the Infinite System in every dimension we exist to the best of
our abilities. This is a conscious intention, and its resulting behavior is imperfect if
measured by finite standards.


“Localize” means our behavior in the nonphysical and physical levels of existence. We access
and express our free will and energy of the finite and Infinite Self in service of localizing the
Infinite System. It means our behavior expresses imperfect, unconditional love, because we
are finite expressions of our Infinite Self. We do this not out of effort to perform, but out of
our investment to understand that unconditional love—our deepest understanding of the
Unifying Principle and the Infinite System—becomes our interpreter and expresser of life.


We become a blended consciousness that is finite and infinite. Our finite self understands
that it is also an Infinite Self that is interconnected with all other life forms and the Infinite
Being that is our shared planetary system. This is a collective consciousness that is not
parsed by spacetime. We exist in totality, and recognizing even a glimpse of this underlying
truth transforms us. Once we internalize this realization—even if only as a fleeting
sense—we become alchemists, actively pursuing the Sovereign Path and embodying the
Unifying Principle.




                               © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                           5
