                         Evolving Within the Infinite System



Question:
Does the Infinite Self evolve? Is the Infinite Self the soul? And is the Infinite Self the Creator
or simply one with the Creator?


Answer:
Our personal experience, derived from our local universe, is wholly unique. An event can
happen to two people or a thousand people or a million people, and the interpretation of
that event is not identical, and in some cases, can be quite polar in nature. The other thing
I would say is that knowledge evolves. The old saying that "We cannot cross the river in the
same place twice," is an apt description of this sentiment. Spacetime duality and language,
ensures the truth of that adage.


So, the concept of soul varies in culture, and while it is not an event, but a state of
consciousness, it is even more prone to subjectivity and personal experience. Moreover,
because the soul is invisible to our human self, and its mere existence is called into
question by luminaries of science and philosophy, it is a hard flame to kindle in human
culture at large.


Soul is a concept. It is an abstract concept. To simplify it, one needs to remind themselves
that they live within a reality called spacetime duality. And the duality is vital to understand,
because it hides the Infinite Self. We know that for every expression of one polarity, the
other polarity exists to counterbalance it. In other words, if the finite exists, then the
Infinite exists. If matter exists then the soul exists, if we describe it as invisible energy.


Now, for your first question. Evolution is a significant part of the spacetime dimensions in
which finite biologics live. The temporal evolves in spacetime duality, even when it is beset
with inertia and entropy. In a sense, evolution is a substitute for the concept of temporal
change.


The infinite evolves in spacetime very differently, as it is not simply the modulation of
change of a sovereign, finite human being: its evolution is a system of oneness and unity.
We, as an Infinite Self, evolve our interpretations and expressions in spacetime duality.
Therefore, the Infinite Self evolves. Remember that the finite self is the Infinite Self in



                                © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                          1
human clothes. It is not that they are two different creatures occupying one body, heart,
and mind.


The human, finite self is the interface of the Infinite Self to create its finite self's local
universe. The Infinite Self is the finite self in spacetime duality—principally occupying the
fourth and fifth dimensions of feelings and thoughts. The Prime Creator is the Source of all
the sources, and these sources are the Infinite Being associated with a planet and all life
therein. Within the Infinite Being there is an Infinite Self that is a sovereign "lens" of the
Infinite Being. When the Infinite Self is in a physical body, it is then a finite self, yet still a
part of the Infinite System.


The way to think of it is that there is an Infinite System of Prime Creator (multiversal),
Infinite Being (galactic-planetary), a sovereign Infinite Self, (individuated Infinite Being), a
sovereign finite self (human interface for the Infinite Self), and a local universe from which
all the previous elements derive reality. These components constitute one system, and this
entire system evolves.


The finite self is not the only aspect that evolves, unless the perspective is the finite self. In
other words, the finite self does not perceive an evolution of the Infinite Self, because it
does not perceive this Infinite System. It has no benchmark, calibration, data, or sensory
input that can transcribe the Infinite System to the finite self and its local universe.


Evolution is a system, as I said before, and by definition, a system is co-created and
co-sustained by the system itself. Understanding the consciousness of the Prime Creator, is
not relevant to the finite self; yet, as the system evolves in the finite world, it evolves in the
infinite too, and this co-learning is system-wide, and it's always in dynamic interaction.


Everything we understand is shared. Everything we're confused about, that also is shared.
Our interpretations of, and expressions into, our local universe, is the principle way we
evolve our local universe, our finite self, our Infinite Self, the Infinite Being of our shared
planet, and the Prime Creator. The product of this evolution is Source Intelligence, because
that is the mechanism by which we are interconnected as One and All.


One could say that the Infinite System produces a byproduct called Source Intelligence, and
that intelligence is what knits all of us together as One. One could also argue that this
process is not an evolution so much as a natural course of a design. The Prime Creator
designed it this way, but added the key ingredient of free will to the Master Algorithm. Free


                                 © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                              2
will of all sovereigns, species, biologics, and forms of spacetime duality. However, all of us
are part of a designed, integral system that is multiversal. It is not one local universe, it is
an infinite multiverse, and in such a place, one moment is our local universe. One moment,
yet, in that one moment, all is held in a multiverse of dimensions. We exist in these other
dimensions always. It is not something we go to or leave from. We are always in these
other dimensions or we could not exist as a finite being.


If we are finite, we are infinite. That is duality in action. In reality.


We are evolving our finite ability to live simultaneously in the Infinite System, and our
sovereign, unique, local universe. This is where the concept of "imperfect" arises. We
become aware of this evolutionary purpose and we strive to live in both worlds, to
refashion our beliefs and consequent behaviors, and we fall short of our expectations. The
"human ways" rise in us, else we feel disassociated with our species. However, it is initially
the intention we hold, as a result of our beliefs, that truly matters. We are not measurable
performance units of the Infinite System. We are sovereign creators of learning for the
Infinite System.


As for definitions of soul and Infinite Self, I am suggesting that the Infinite Self is an aspect
of the Infinite System. This Infinite System has never been defined as a human soul. The
human soul has been defined as an eternal aspect of God or an intelligent universe. The
soul survives the death of the temporal body, and lives in a heavenly state either as an
angelic presence or returning to oneness with our Creator.


This is how we collectively define the soul. There are variations of this to be sure, but if we
intermixed them altogether and looked at the cross-section, we would see these three
ideas emerge as dominant: The soul incarnates and when the body dies returns to heaven
(assuming it is saved). The second idea is that we become one with our Creator. And the
third, and perhaps the most popular, is the idea of reincarnation. That the soul recycles
itself across spacetime, applying what it has learned to earn a better foothold on life
everlasting as a saint, guru or master.


We are part of an Infinite System that is learning to live in the finite realms of emotions,
thoughts and physical actions as our Infinite Self, and ultimately as a realized part of our
Infinite System. The thread that binds the system is the intelligence of unconditional love in
the local and nonlocal multiversal realms. We are not the Creator unless we desire to
become aware of the Creator as the Infinite Being. We are not the finite self unless we


                                 © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                           3
desire to be the finite self. When one lives in a system of interconnection, it is a choice
where they place their attention. The choice, however, is conditioned by the finite self in
the fourth dimension. Our beliefs circumscribe our behavior, and when I use the term
behavior, it is in its broadest application.


Behavior is as much a thought, an imaginative foray into a thought experiment, as it is an
action or word. The distinction between behavior and belief is marginal, and only relevant
in the physical domain. Behavior is the frontier of the Infinite System. This is where the value
of learning is heightened and amplified. Our beliefs evolve. Understanding our beliefs
evolves. Our behavioral reflection of our beliefs evolve. The Infinite System evolves with our
evolving beliefs and behaviors, and it does so without a single judgment founded in the
duality in which the behaviors are interpreted or expressed.


In this specific way, we are creators. We create learning for the Infinite System. We are
using the inputs of a designed system and our free will in order to produce an output. And
the output is evolving our beliefs and behaviors in service to our collective Infinite System. I
realize this sounds clinical in its tone, but do remember that the very basis of this system is
unconditional love of an interconnected intelligence we cannot possibly imagine.


The Infinite System, as it relates to the Prime Creator, is not what the sovereign,
individuated, infinite consciousness can experience. We are not that. Not because we are
excluded, but because we are Sovereign and Integral. We are individuated from, and we are
interconnected to, one another. It is our part in the system to play. We are never
simultaneously all parts of the system. We can become aware of the Prime Creator, but this
is not the same as being the Prime Creator.


It's wise to understand the Infinite System. To know that we are a part of it first and
foremost, and that finite part of us is the human "glove" that the Infinite wears in
spacetime duality in the early part of the 21st century on planet earth. We each localize the
Infinite System in spacetime. In a sense, we are like "miners" of understanding for the Infinite
System to evolve. What we mine is our interpretation of our local universe and how we
express ourselves into it.


While we localize the Infinite System, the Infinite System non-localizes us. We can feel this.
We can touch its edges. We can imagine it. We can peer inside this Infinite System and
realize we live within it. We can align to it. Our finite self, afterall, is a part of it. Our Infinite
Self is a part of it. We are already in it. We never left it.


                                 © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                             4
It’s time to rejoice in that realization.




                                © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved   5
