                                 Free Will of the Sovereign



Question:
Is true free will a choice? Do we really have a choice on how we live and what we do with
our lives?


Answer:
Free will is simply the way the One and All operates in order to create authentic learning. It
is the design at the foundational level. You could call free will a fundamental premise upon
which all life rests. If there was a single atom that was controlled by One and All, it could
remove free will from the experience and expression of all life forms. One atom. That is the
interconnectedness that we all share. In order for free will to be the breath of life—all
life—it must be untethered to spacetime. This is to say, that free will is not of, from, or a
result of spacetime. It is instead, a result of the most formative expression of One and All,
and it is placed within, or granted to be part of, spacetime. As one would place a toy boat
on the surface of an ocean.


What you have asked about is really more of an application of free will. Free will is like
having oxygen, and applications of free will are more like breathing. By "breathing," we are
putting free will to use, to an application. Now, the higher frequency knowledge we can
grasp with our minds, hearts and imaginations, these are applications of free will that serve
the Sovereign (One), the Collective (Many) and Integral (All). They are the reason we are
given free will, to bring this higher knowledge to all domains in which life can live. To create
applications within us that we can believe in, act upon, and then observe our reality change
in our local universe. We apply our free will to the will of One and All. Some would say this
is surrender. It is not. It is alignment. It is aligning the will of the one that is you—the
Sovereign—with the will of the All that is infinite—the Integral.


How does one align to anything?


In order to align to something outside or inside of us, we must first understand what that
thing is. We must understand it from top to bottom and everywhere in between, because if
we do not understand its nature -- its total nature -- then we cannot align to its reality, we
can only align to our perception of its reality. That alignment is based on our beliefs. Thus,
alignment to the highest understanding of One and All that we can contain in a moment of
spacetime, is an application of free will. We understand that this application in a moment of


                                  © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved
                                                                                                 1
spacetime is imperfect and incomplete, but we apply our free will to expand upon it, to add
insights into it, and to make it more widespread in its value to One and All.


Let me give you a more tangible example. If love is the basis of free will, the One and All is
love. Then aligning our free will to One and All is really understanding that love is the fractal
upon which all life is built. If our choice is to align to this omnipresent love upon which all
life depends and is interconnected, then we can align our will to the will of One and All
without philosophical hardship or mental gymnastics. We simply align our lives to love as a
field of fractal interconnectedness. We apply our free will to this expression and all of our
embodiments flow from this alignment, for which we are grateful and for which no
expectation or explanation is made.


Amidst this choice, our human self still falters, fears, has its biases and personal
predicaments, but underneath all of that, there remains a calm center that is aligned to
love. And this calm center is like an underground spring that forms a lake of crystalline
water deep inside a volcano. This is who we are—as much the volcano (human self) as we
are the crystalline lake (the aligned Sovereign). We are both, and it is not like the volcano is
bad and the lake is good. We are both, and both can align to love. The lake cools the
volcano. It reduces its fomentation. It brings navigational partnership to the human self
and Sovereign. And the volcano brings learnings to the Sovereign. Expressions and
experience and embodiments, like lava—its liquid fire, flowing from its deepest core.


This melding of human and Sovereign, of seeing these two distinct entities as one, and then
seeing this one partnership aligned to One and All as a lens of learning and expression, this
is an application of free will that deserves our contemplation.


Your statement is not wrong, it is incomplete, and that is what I am trying to show you in
my response. My response is not wrong either, and I guarantee you, it is also incomplete.
Everything that the mind can comprehend and then express in words, is instantly
incomplete. Yet, there are distinctions in the degree of completeness, and these
distinctions can be subtle yet important. And that is what I am really endeavoring to
explain.


And this is why becoming blank, neutral, unmeasured, and open is important to experience
and to set aside time to be in this state. There is nothing more valuable in our local
universe than the apportionment of time. If we run from crisis to crisis, and then sleep
semi-soundly, we become both the rat in the maze and the one who runs inside a metal


                                 © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved
                                                                                                   2
wheel. Our local universe is filled with distraction and anxiety, conditions that make it hard
to listen to, attune to, and align to the One that is All, as an individualized replica.


Remember, if we embody a physical body, then we are allowing separation. We are
stepping outside of our true nature into a comparative dreamworld where we can feel
separate from ourselves in the same way that One and All feels separate from itself. We
experience the echo of this most fundamental of all experiences in all dimensions of
existence. Nothing is untouched by this echo. Its resonance is omnipresent. In its most
native form, it is love.




                                 © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved
                                                                                                 3
