                              Imperfect, Unconditional Love



Question:
I realize the world is varied beyond comprehension, but there are themes that seem to run
across all cultures, and one of those themes, especially right now, seems to be one of
unrest and turmoil. What can one person do to calm the situation we’re in. To contribute to
it in some way that helps steer humanity to a more peaceful and sustaining world that
benefits all of us?


Answer:
As we can imagine, there’s no singular answer to this question. It seems sometimes that
everyone has their own answer or there are herds of thoughts that congeal on one
particular ideology. However, you can listen to the voice within you, that voice I refer to as
the Infinite Self or Sovereign Integral, and you can cultivate a partnership between your
finite, temporal self and that part of you that is infinite. In doing that, you can bring more of
the infinite perspective into this finite world of human life.


This is the one act that will benefit all. As the ratio of the Infinite Self to the finite self
expands across all local universes, it is the adage that all boats rise with the tide. The “tide,”
in this case, is the awareness of the Infinite Self. When our awareness is focused on our
finite self—our body, feelings, and thoughts—we can simultaneously be aware of our
Infinite Self. They are not incompatible fields of perception.


And what is the infinite, other than an impossibly abstract concept? There are fundamental
continuums in duality that contain sub-continuums like branches of a tree. An example
would be the fundamental continuum that defines the duality of love and fear. This
continuum contains all emotions, as if the fractal structure was fear that led to love, that
led to fear, and then to love, and it cycled endlessly. And all of the other emotions were
variations of fear and love.


What is the fundamental polarity of the continuum of fear and love? At the very furthest
poles of the continuum, what exists there? In the polarity of love, there is unconditional
love, imbued with the intelligence of One and All. In the fundamental polarity of fear, there
is the unfaltering sense of separation. We are alone, separated from our very source like
toddlers who are taken from their parents and left to survive on their own.



                                © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                           1
Between those two poles is a vast network of dualities that emerge from this fundamental
continuum. Fear and love become nuanced, watered down, and generally made to be more
reasonable in social, human terms. New emotions begin to sprout into the human genome
and physical structure. Emotions like anxiety, hatefulness, passion, frustration, envy,
compassion, desire, manipulation, kindness, and greed. All of these emotions are part of
the one fundamental continuum of fear and love that defines spacetime duality.


We are part of the continuum of fear and love, as well as its many branches. It is a
dimension of duality we experience within our local universe, and it comprises these
emotional centers. It is the emotional dimension, yet it is a part of each of us. There is also
a mental dimension, and its fundamental continuum of duality is also fear and love.
However, our interpretation and expression is with thought and reason, as opposed to
feelings. And again, it is part of us and all life.


Even plants have emotions and thoughts. They interpret their local universe and have a
sense of multiple dimensions, thus they can think. They can also express themselves. All
physical, earthly life, is part of the physical, emotional, mental dimensions. There are no
boundaries between the dimensions and the life forms within them.


We can reason our way out of fear and its associated emotions, and with our thoughts, we
can move them to the side of the continuum that is of love, peace, harmony, ease, and
goodwill. This is the mental perspective of our internal, invisible thoughts. These thoughts
probe the continuum of fear and love, and each time they probe, they spark a learning that
deepens our understanding as both a finite and Infinite Self.


It is a choice we each make as to where we probe the continuum of fear and love, however,
this choice is constrained by our knowledge and belief. If we have a broad knowledge of
behavioral intelligence from a scientific, social, philosophical, and spiritual point of view, we
can then make better choices. Lacking these, we are more prone to follow our innate
knowledge or an ideology peddled by outside forces.


This innate knowledge is something of a hand-me-down from our ancestors long forgotten.
We have this knowledge stored within us. It is Innate Knowledge. Whatever name we give
to it, this knowledge is not a byproduct of human curation in educational institutions of one
sort or another. It remains absolutely wild and untethered to any human embellishment or
elaboration, and this is because we are sovereign, free will, infinite beings. Truth has to
come from inside us.


                                 © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                      2
This innate knowledge is that we are Infinite Beings operating a finite interface. In this case,
a human interface. And we’re doing this within a spacetime duality. We’re exploring this
spacetime duality in order to learn how to survive and thrive through our finite interface,
while simultaneously learning to align our finite interface to our Infinite Self. This innate
knowledge is within every single life form. It cannot be otherwise. How much a physical life
form is aware of this knowledge correlates to where it chooses to probe on the continuum
of fear and love.


If we live in a physical body, then we also live in an emotional and mental dimension, which
means we interact with spacetime duality and the continuum of fear and love at multiple
levels, and we do so with free will. We choose where we interact, and how much we use our
Innate Knowledge to decide where we probe on the fundamental continuum. Where we
probe determines our local universe experience to a significant extent.


This, then, informs how we bring the infinite into the finite. How we create overlaps in our
local universe. What are these “overlaps?” Overlaps are the point of interface between
polarities like fear and love, light and darkness, anger and peacefulness, to name a few. For
example, in the case of day and night, a sunrise or sunset would be the point of overlap.
The overlap—in the physical realm—of the infinite and finite defines the behaviors of
imperfect, unconditional love and kindness.


Love is imperfect because we are unique, and therefore, all is subjective. In such a world
there can be no judgment. If there is no judgment, there is no perfect and imperfect that
oversees the continuum of fear and love. That is the core nature of unconditional love. So,
in order to practice it, and create conscious overlaps into our local universe, we express
love and kindness subjectively (and these acts cannot be judged).


It can truly be that simple. The overlap of fear and love is imperfect, unconditional love. The
imperfect is the conditional fear caused by separation from our Infinite Self; and the
unconditional love is caused by the sovereign, free will accorded to each of us by One and
All. Those two forces intermix in a balanced ratio, and when our behavior expresses this
ratio—this overlap of the fundamental continuum of fear and love—we bring, in
partnership, the infinite into the finite.


And this simple act, backed by our Innate Knowledge, becomes our individual way, our
Sovereign Path, to lift the tide a little higher. To ensure that no “ship of life” is grounded,


                                © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                           3
ensnared in the material dimensions, cut-off from the oceans of their Infinite Self. Thus, it is
the Sovereign Path that leads to the behaviors of imperfect, unconditional love, which acts
as the interpretative and expressionary forces of our life. This is the embodied Sovereign
Integral consciousness.


Unlike what many believe, this consciousness is not a personality like we think of when we
imagine a human being. It is not a human being. It is an Infinite Being. It is a being that is
simultaneously sovereign and integral. Its sensory system is so different from our human
self that we cannot bring it into our physical, emotional, and mental dimensional
constructs. How would we put the ocean in the drop?


Well, the answer to this question is important to understand. The ocean and the drop are
the same. They are simply at different levels of scale. They are nested within and without.
They are dimensions of infinitude that stretch on without end or beginning of any
substantive definition.


There are no definitions for the Infinite Self that comprise us. All sovereign life forms are
parts of an Infinite Self, and this Infinite Self is part of a planetary consciousness. And this
planetary consciousness is part of a galactic consciousness. And it goes on and on, beyond
what is necessary to understand with a human interface in our spacetime. Thus, the whole
of us is fractured into sovereign parts, and we forget the whole and become the part. We
forget the ocean and become the drop, and that drop becomes an ocean, and it recursively
telescopes in all fractal dimensions.


The Infinite Self is not a body. It is a consciousness that is bodiless, and yet it occupies
countless bodies. This is the ultimate secret that has been veiled. We believe that
extraterrestrials exist, and yet we do not know that we are Infinite Beings—Sovereign and
Integral—existing as consciousness in an infinite spacetime. We telescope into a planetary
spacetime and embody a finite life form or interface, and we exist temporally in that life
form.


That life form is one of many that we experience in order to live as our Infinite Self in
spacetime dimensions that we create. We create both the veil and the lifting of it. We invest
in the slow, dense vibration of physical spacetime to create experiences that are literally
our creations, no different than when an artist paints a canvas. LIfe itself is the canvas, and
in a single lifetime we can paint millions of canvases.



                               © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                           4
