                           Infinity and the One Dimension



Question:
If there are so many dimensions (infinite?), then why do we only experience one—the
physical? It seems like even within the physical, we only experience an infinitesimally small
portion. Why?


Answer:
What is a dimension? Let’s start there. A dimension is spacetime codified into vibrations of
similar density. In reality, there is only one dimension, and it is One and All. All dimensions
are interconnected. There is no clean break between dimensions or vibratory rates. They
are as numerous as life forms, because life forms create the dimensions through the
construction and evolution of their local universes.


It is the local universe that is a dimension. It is a dimension of existence within the
spacetime module we call a moment in time within a spatial field. These spacetime
modules are the building blocks of our local universe as a life form. Each one is a
dimension of existence, and they are infinite in number and yet they are one.


We dive below the surface of reality to explore the dimensions of creation—our creation.
We create dimensions to exist within, as a finite being. To explore spacetime duality in
order to extract information and insight, and impress our vibration into the mold of the
multiverse, which in turn informs the intelligence of the One and All. This same intelligence
can then inform its constituent parts—the life of spacetime duality.


Each species creates a local universe that is validated by the consensual reality of the
species. Depending on the sophistication of the species, its consensual reality generally
creates a hierarchy within the species. The higher order the species, the more it creates a
hierarchy across other, related species, particularly if the species in question is a predator.


A species creates a dimension. In the case of human beings on earth, we would say that the
dimension we have created is a material, physical dimension. It is solid. We cannot walk
through walls. We embody emotions and thoughts in addition to this physicality, and these
create their correlative dimensions, which have been termed, respectively, the astral and
mental dimensions.



                              © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                        1
We often think of these dimensions, stacked up upon each other, like pancakes. Each
pancake represents a dimension—either higher or lower than the one above and below in
the stack. However, as I said earlier, there is only one dimension that constitutes our true
reality, and that is the reality that we are the sovereign lenses of the intelligence and love of
the One and All consciousness within spacetime.


So, what is spacetime? Spacetime is infinite, and therefore unknowable in its entirety. Let’s
start there. We must claim ignorance at the very beginning of any disclosure or theory.
Spacetime is not three or four dimensions, and maybe a fifth dimension that is nondual
and eternal. All is spacetime. There is nothing outside of it. How can there be an outside, if
spacetime is infinite?


Spacetime exists in an infinite variety of vibrations within an infinite variety of spacetime
modules (moments). Within our local universe there is a point of our interconnectedness
with all life, through the intelligence of One and All, that can be accessed. This access point
is not contained in the external domain of our local universe. It is found in the internal
domain, and this is the domain where we can be in contact with the one dimension, seeing
all life as part of our life, and our life as part of everyone else’s.


In a way, there is one path to one dimension, and this path and dimension is not
hierarchical. It is not owned by anyone. It is not even ownable. Anything that cannot be
owned is true, and anything that can be owned is not. Thus, dimensions are of our making,
our creation, our will to experience physicality, emotionality and mentality. And we do this
as part of a much larger plan and design, which most of us have purposely suppressed.


Across all of those infinite dimensions that contain spacetime, we exist. And we exist
because we are infinite. If we exist now, we will always exist. If we always exist, we are
infinite. If we are infinite, we are in every moment of spacetime that is our local universe,
not as a finite being (external), but as an Infinite Being (internal).


This world view that we create dimensions—both as a species and as a sovereign
individual—is not widely held. It is much more common to presume that dimensions exist
externally, and they exist either as a result of God or Science. We, as individual life forms,
could not possibly be the creator of our local universe and every dimension therein. Yet, if
life is infinite, it is subjective, and we are its creator within our sovereign moment.




                                © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                          2
There could only be one objective thing, and that would be the intelligence and statehood
of the One and All. All other states of awareness would be contained in spacetime
dimensionality, where the One and All inhabits spacetime through us. Where the infinite
dimensions are the outbreath of its design to experience spacetime duality, and the
inbreath is the one path to the one dimension.


Does duality exist in all dimensions of spacetime? Yes. Spacetime is duality. No matter how
rarified a spacetime might be, there is duality in that spacetime. It may not have the same
intensity of duality, meaning the extremes of polarity are less severe, but it is still
multivarious. There is no union of interpretation, meaning, and expression. There always
remains an individuality; a sovereign, free will nature.


When the sovereign is empowered with free will, as an Infinite Being, it creates local
universes within dimensions and duality. It flows between these dimensional states of
consciousness and secures learnings, imports its creations, evolves its perspectives within
spacetime duality, across infinite lifetimes.


Why would we think we end? That dimensions end? That the multiverse ends? That all is
finite if stretched across enough time? Why would we believe any of this? Because the
dimensions we are attuned to are finite. We are taught to believe in our physical survival in
one lifetime. No matter how hard religion instructs us that we are children of God who
belong in a heavenly state, we are more strongly inculcated by our culture and educational
systems that we are finite, physical creatures. And the rest of that sentiment that contains
God, heaven, and eternity, are ancient, pre-Enlightenment beliefs, and little more.


If we attune to the one path and the one dimension, we can realize that we are all infinite
consciousness, experiencing our self-created local universes in spacetime modules that
telescope into infinity. There is an intelligence that has created and sustains the infinite
plan through all of us. We are an explorer—commissioned on behalf of One and All.


It is truly where we attune our consciousness that determines our belief as to whether we
are finite or infinite. Do we choose the external, physical dimension? Or do we choose the
one path to the one dimension? In other words, it is a choice, as to which dimension we
attune to. We choose which dimensions we create, and which dimensions are attracting us.
All of these will be within spacetime duality, but some are infinite and some are finite. We
choose.



                               © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                         3
It is not as though there is the real and the unreal, and that is the choice we make. All is
real. One is real. And everywhere in between All and One is real. So whatever we choose is
real. However, the infinite can become a partner of the finite. They can co-exist and
co-evolve in spacetime duality. They can be conscious of one another, and elect to be
conjoined in purpose and intent.


It is not the Infinite Self that evolves. It is the partnership between the finite self and the
Infinite Self that evolves. These two elements co-evolve as one, conjoined consciousness
within a temporal life, if we choose it to be so.


This requires that the temporal, finite part of us, invites the Infinite Self to become a
partner. A true partner. That this partnership, while its local universe is temporal in
spacetime, contains infinite dimensions. That there is an infinite local universe, and there is
a temporal or finite local universe. Our finite local universe is a collection of spacetime
modules that is part of the infinite local universe of our Infinite Self (Sovereign Integral).


We are in partnership as co-evolvers and co-creators, and that partnership spans lifetimes
and, in a very real sense, all spacetime modules. Every single moment is contained within
that partnership across every dimension of our existence. We have moments in the
temporal, finite local universe, and we have moments within the infinite local universe. All
of these moments are occurring in different spacetimes. Each seems separate from one
point of view, and yet, from another perspective, they are all one moment in one
dimension, and we are the conductor, interpreter, expresser, observer, learner, and
transmitter.


We transmit to One and All. We conduct, interpret, express, observe and learn as a
Sovereign individual that is a tiny replica of the One and All. Does it seem impossible that
we could be an earthly creature with 99% the same DNA as a chimpanzee, and yet, be a
fractal unit of the One and All with full accessibility to its intelligence? If we answer, yes,
consider the possibility that we’ve been suppressing our true self.


We are like an endless canvas, thrust into a world that seeks to put a frame on us. It is not
for the self-image of ego that we believe in our divinity. We believe because it is logical that
we are subjective creatures with our own interpretive centers. That the universe and our
local universe are subjective. That our imagination is the one thing that can hold our
divinity in clear view, and that the “clear view” evolves infinitely.



                               © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                            4
The concept of infinity is impossible to understand with our mental apparatus. It is simply a
number that has no number. It is the state of endlessness and foreverness. And we taught
from nearly every angle that we are nothing like that. On average, we have 692,000 hours
of life with a name. That is clearly not infinite. And yet, we all know that a powerful belief
that has no beginning states very clearly that we survive death. Perhaps we are 692,000
hours plus infinity, which happens to equal infinity.


Why would we choose to believe otherwise? Ah, there is “no proof.” Science says so, and
even the 10,000 different religions of our world don’t agree with the afterlife. There is not a
consensus, therefore it cannot be. We should stick to the world we know, and that world
says we have 692,000 hours and then we are nonexistent, or perhaps existing in an eternal
heaven or hell. Simple to believe. Case open and shut. Legacy or not, we leave behind
nothing. We are clouds against the sky of time. Tiny shrouds of dust in a cold universe.


What is our choice? We make our choice and then evolve it. Expand it. Learn it. Live it. Be it,
and feel how it works for us—how it organizes and structures our local universe. Is this not
science at a subjective level? How can anything as complex and simultaneously singular
and unique as a human being, be anything but subjective? Perhaps with something as
incomprehensible as infinity and the one dimension, subjective science is the only
responsible thing we can do.




                               © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                           5
