                                Making the Finite Infinite



Question:
You write a lot about the Sovereign Path, and it somewhat takes off from the teachings of
Jesus who supposedly spoke of the kingdom of heaven being within us, hence the nature of
the sovereign path, but what about the sense of community or togetherness or kinship?
What role do these play in the sovereign path?


Answer:
The idea of the Sovereign Integral, answers your question, but I understand you’re asking
at a more heart-centered, even human, level. The finite self—the part of us that is distinctly
human, the part of us that desires to be—sees the efficacy of being communal creatures.
Yet that part is only the gateway to the Sovereign Path.


In a real sense, the finite self is the entrance ramp to the Sovereign Path “highway.” Once
we are the highway, we are operating in the partnership between the finite and infinite
selves. We no longer see ourselves as one or the other. We see ourselves as part of the
Infinite System that comprises the finite self, the Infinite Self, the Infinite Being that is earth
and its star, and the Prime Creator.


That collective system becomes our identity, which is the Sovereign Integral. We see it as an
integrated system, and every life form is part of that system—whether they know it or not.


Membership in the Infinite System is not optional. If you exist, you are in it. If you are in it,
you are always in it. You have always been in it. And you will always be in it.


Thus, the whole issue of community is understood differently. We are not a community like
a tribe, pitted against nature, other tribes competing for limited resources or market share,
etc. We are a community of one and all. We are a part of the Infinite System that is inclusive
of all. How could an infinite System be otherwise?


Our sense of community shifts from the finite tribe to the Infinite System. In the process of
this shift, it can feel isolating, because the vast majority of people, even those who profess
to be spiritual, are in the finite tribe. They identify with a subset of the whole, not only in a
human sense, but especially when all forms of life in all dimensions of spacetime are
considered.


                               © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                          1
It is not a choice of one over the other proposition. While we live in the material, finite
world, we can have both perspectives: finite tribal and Infinite System. This is the
proposition of unfoldment in spacetime duality; we are always both and all simultaneously,
again, whether we know it or not.


We live in tribes and we are part of the Infinite System. As simple as that. A tribe can be
family, an organization, workplace, mosque, temple or church, hobby, passion, ethnicity,
political persuasion, geographical place, etc. We satiate our desire for community in these
tribes. The internet and its social networks have enabled these tribes to prosper across
geographical borders, knitting together new tribes,


So, tribal living is as easy today as it has ever been. It may be a good thing to acknowledge
that, in spite of how much the media reminds us that we are lonely and cut-off. But where
does this loneliness originate? Is it really a result of the media? It is certainly not a result of
the Sovereign Path.


The point of our perceived loneliness is that we do not see ourselves living in both realities
of the finite tribal and the Infinite System. The finite, material world pulls on us with
relentless certainty, while the Infinite System seems to be relatively indifferent and
perhaps, even unwelcoming.


However, the indifference is like the indifference of the water to the fish or the air to the
land animals. It simply exists. It is all around us, and we take it for granted. It is so obvious it
has slipped into invisibility, and therefore we can attribute indifference to it. Meanwhile, it
is the reason we are alive and have consciousness.


It is not indifferent. It is absolutely vital. The Infinite System is like electricity to our
technology—without it, we are all just bodies that will fall to earth, and in time, become
dust. The Infinite System is our identity. It only seems like an indifferent, isolated path to
awareness of our true selves, because we are so steeped in the finite self and its local
universe of spacetime duality.


If our tribal identity is of finite things—things that exist in spacetime duality as material
objects and mental concepts—we may sense a community, but it does not mean that we
sense the Infinite System, or that we sense it in equal measure to the finite tribal. It takes



                                 © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                         2
time to find the balance of seeing both forms of community—tribal finite and the Infinite
System—not as competing forces, but as partners of design.


What is the design? It is that we are Sovereign Integrals. That we exist as consciousness
that is sovereign as an individual, Infinite Self, and we are integral elements of the Infinite
System that culminates in the Prime Creator. We are the clouds that form the raindrops
that fall into the streams that flow into the river that flows into the ocean that forms the
clouds. We are that Infinite System, metaphorically speaking.


The “ocean of consciousness” is the Prime Creator upon which the Infinite System depends.
Everything that exists, exists inside the Infinite System. It is all a part. It all belongs. Whether
it is a slug or a star, it belongs. Whether it is a computer or a deer, it belongs. Whether it is a
stone or a human being, it belongs. It is absolutely inclusive, and in that inclusiveness, it is
diverse with free will and its accompanying sovereign empowerment.


Free will is not only of action and movement. It is also of the mental, imaginative, and
emotional realms. This means we have free will to believe, to conceptualize an idea, to
imagine what and who we are, to feel our origins as a sovereign part of infinite
consciousness. All of these aspects are part of our free will to exist as we exist in spacetime
duality. In our local universe. This is our power.


This empowerment derives from awareness of who we are and why we are here. Our
awareness of these two elements of consciousness is critical to our ability to understand
the Sovereign Integral nature of our identity and live it to the best of our abilities. We
ground this consciousness into the finite world of spacetime duality. It becomes an idea,
the idea becomes a way of life, the way of life becomes the practice of belief and behavior,
which in turn is the grounding.


Everyone of us, who grounds this idea into the finite world, is not lonely, unless we desire
to be. We are part of a network of the Prime Creator’s consciousness that is interconnected
to those who believe in it as it truly is—not as the grandfather in the clouds. We consciously
ground this realization within our local universe, because that is the only way to believe in
it. The believers understand that all life believes in it when they are in their Infinite Self. The
grounding, however, pertains to our finite self and our local universe.


Thus, to believe in the Sovereign Integral consciousness and to ground it into spacetime
duality dimensions, we must live it in our beliefs and behaviors while we journey the


                               © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                           3
Sovereign Path into and through the Infinite System. It is the only way for the individual,
and there is no organization that can travel this path, let alone define it and point the way.
It is only the individual who can both enter and travel the Sovereign Path.


While the Sovereign Path may sound alienating, it remains that the Sovereign Path is the
only path to both an all-inclusive community, and an all-exclusive sovereign experience.
This experience brings about the simultaneous understanding of the two; of living in the
overlap of the sovereign and integral understanding.


It is in this spacetime where duality itself is understood. We are not a point on a line’s
continuum, nor are we a spectrum of endless colors and dimensions. We are all-inclusive
and all-exclusive simultaneously on an infinite scale. Yet, in every point of our infinite
duality, we understand who we are and why we are here, and we understand that the
Infinite System upholds us with love, enables us with free will, draws us unerringly unto
itself, and yet burrows itself into the finite to make the finite infinite.


The infinite lives in the finite, just as the finite lives in the infinite. Consciousness is infinite,
living in the finite, local universe. Those who understand this, not only at an intellectual
level, but at a living example level, they are not alone. They are spread across the
multiversal dimensions of the Prime Creator. They are clothed in every imaginable cloth.
And regardless of that cloth, they hold to one thing: we are Sovereign Integrals within an
Infinite System.


Within spacetime duality, some are aware, some are not.


Those who are aware and actively working to ground this awareness into the finite worlds,
they are not less than, nor are they more than. All is equal. Awareness is a choice. Choice is
an expression of free will. And free will derives from unconditional love. Thus, all awareness
is an expression of unconditional love, whether that awareness understands it is a
Sovereign Integral within an Infinite System or not.


This is important to understand. Otherwise, we judge the unaware as being less than or
outside the “inner circle.” The sovereign is distinctly unique, the integral is distinctly one.
The sovereign, being distinctly unique, is never judgeable. And the integral, being distinctly
one, cannot be judged at all.




                                 © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                            4
Of course, we are humanly trained animals. We will possess judgment and wield it at our
discretion. Our finite egos will hold its blade to define and defend itself. Yet, even
self-judgment can be eliminated from our life. We are here to ground the Sovereign
Integral consciousness into spacetime duality, and we each perform this “grounding” in a
distinctly unique way.


We journey the Sovereign Path to understand our integral nature. The journey through
spacetime duality is not easy or hard, but rather, it is a necessary outcome of free will, and
free will is what enables the Prime Creator to experience authentically. Our individuality is
the builder of Source Intelligence, of which we can access and utilize.


Is the Sovereign Path vulnerable to deception? Can we be fooled to believe something that
is false? What is false if it holds meaning to us? If we believe in something that does not
hold meaning to us, then yes, we are deceived, but not by an outside force. By our own
deception we are deceived. We must believe in meaning above all things. Not to believe just
because we are asked to believe from words spoken or written.


If we believe in the things that hold meaning to us, then we are not deceived. Let meaning
be our impulse upon the Sovereign Path to take action and progress. Let meaning be our
compass, our Northern Star. And yes, meaning can be different for different beings. Thus,
the Sovereign Path is different for every single creature and personality. There is no one to
judge. There is no judge. Judgment is one thing: our ability to discern meaning in our
present moment, and the wisdom to follow it.


One cannot do this indefinitely. Perhaps 1% of their present moments can be consciously a
movement to meaning. Yet 1% is enough for that sovereign. Perhaps for you, 2% is what
you need. Perhaps for another sovereign 5% is beneficial. And for another, a higher
percentage is sought. And the nature of meaning is completely unique to that sovereign
being.


The point is, there is no script for the Sovereign Path that can be defined for one and then
given to another, and another, and another. There is one script that we each write, as we
seek meaningful understanding of who we are and why we are here. This script is our life in
our local universe. Its meaningfulness is for us alone. It is not for the next person. It cannot
be for the next person, and this is why there is no effort to convert anyone to our beliefs.
The effort is entirely devoted to our interpretation and expression of our understanding of
who we are, and why we are here.


                               © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                         5
We are here to ground the Sovereign Integral consciousness within spacetime duality as it
pertains to our local universe; and we are here to perceive our local universe on behalf of
the Prime Creator as a conduit of living in the overlap of sovereignty and integralness. And
we do this in our individual way. In our own timing. In our own system of expression. And
we do this with others—always others—even if we never see their bodies. We are a living
network of consciousness that is interconnected.


How do we know this? I would turn the question a different way: how do we live this in our
own way? If we can find a better way to live in order to live and express our Sovereign
Integral consciousness into our local universe, then we can do it. There is no permission
required. There are no limitations impressed upon us.


And most importantly, there is no “right way,” there is only our way. As long as the word
“our” means sovereign and integral; as long as we are partnered with our finite and Infinite
Self; as long as we live as an expressionary force of the Prime Creator within the Infinite
System, we are embodying our purpose.


Why would anyone deny this? Why would we draw constrictions around ourselves? Why
would we choose to be isolated and separated from all other creations or life forms? Why
would we perceive tribal truths, instead of the perception of all-inclusiveness? Why would
we feel compelled to choose sovereignty or integralness, as though we cannot be both?


These are questions we each ask ourselves in our deepest contemplations. The answer to
these questions is a complex mixture of the programming of our finite local universe,
consisting of social norms, family values, and the conjoined outcome of our educational
programs. Science, philosophy, and religion all seek a voice in this answer. The answer is so
important to understand, because it lives and hides in our subconscious. It is our judge and
jury in matters of our heart and mind.


There are so many conspiracy theories, and theories of reality and consciousness that live
in our programs that have been inherited by the simple construction of words and pictures.
We can believe them whether consciously or subconsciously. We are their foot soldiers who
seek to convert, and with each new conversion, we sink deeper into our beliefs. Into our
answers.




                              © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                         6
In order to release our “answers,” our beliefs, we need to reevaluate our answers to those
important questions in the context of the theory that we are Sovereign Integrals.
Expressions of the Prime Creator. That we live in an Infinite System of free will and love.
That our brotherhood and sisterhood extends to all existence. That we are all-exclusive and
all-inclusive simultaneously.


If we are willing to do this, then we can find the entrance ramp to the Sovereign Path. The
darkness of war, starvation, slavery, religious tribalism, and isolationism—these dark forces
that circle us in the media, art and films, and in our local universe, presenting themselves
as stark reminders of our limited nature, of our primal nature; they represent our finite self
as it struggles against these dark forces.


However, once we are on the Sovereign Path into the Infinite System, seeking but one
thing—to ground the Sovereign Integral consciousness into our local universe. The dark
forces lose their influence in our beliefs and behaviors. And this is because the Infinite
System in which we live and breathe, is One Thing made from an infinite diversity. And we
have found a path to seeing and feeling the One Thing.




                                © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                       7
