                        Manifestation of the Sovereign Path



Question:
There is so much talk in social media about manifestation, and how to do it, and how to
make our lives more successful and joy-filled. I don’t see much about that in your writings.
Why?


Answer:
Manifestation implies that we are in a world not of our making. As if 99% of our local
universe is not an extension of our consciousness. However, we can manifest the other 1%
if we follow the correct process, speak the right mantra, persist the right amount of time,
and visualize the right picture. We can manifest that new car or home, or that loving
relationship we‘ve always desired. Then we can make our lives better, by adding that 1%
that’s missing.


We believe we are like ships on the sea of a baseline reality, completely independent of us,
and then somehow we can create a new direction upon this sea. Remodel the ship we sail
in. Change the direction of the winds or abate the storms. We can float upon this sea of
reality and explore new worlds, which increasingly—through the power of
manifestation—are molded into our desires.


However, the baseline reality is our creation. That is our local universe, the universe of a
single moment in spacetime. That is what we create for logical reasons, which happens to
be the outgrowth of our beliefs and behaviors. That which we are is our manifestation. That
which we exist in is our manifestation. I’m suggesting that everything is a manifestation, so
manifestation is not about learning how to manifest—we already do that—it is about
controlling our local universe to acquire the things we deem important.


There is nothing wrong with desiring a nice home or successful career. However, in
manifestation it is important to understand what we desire. It is far easier to manifest
internal qualities of belief and behavior than it is to manifest externally, a new home, for
example.


If someone came to us and explained that they could wave a magic wand and provide us
with two very different manifestations: A new home or a new partnership between our
finite and Infinite Self. A new car or an evolving, ever-deepening sense of unconditional


                              © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                          1
love. Which would we choose? The internal manifestation can occur in an instant—quite
literally, at the speed of light. The external manifestation can be slow, requiring patience
and persistence.


The internal manifestations are behavioral, while the external manifestations are usually
material objects that require no change in behavior relative to us. So, in other words, do we
desire instant manifestations of insight and understanding that we experience in our
beliefs and behaviors, or do we desire material objects that take weeks, months, and even
years to manifest, and when they appear to change our local universe for the better, our
behavior and beliefs remain intact. No real change.


In a sense, manifestation is either conscious or subconscious. It occurs at both a sovereign
or group level. It is always happening at one stage or another. We are constantly
manifesting in inceptional stages and experiencing the final manifestation of the object or
state desired.


Because so much of our manifestation is subconscious, particularly at the inception of a
desire, we do not often have a conscious desire, where we willfully declare what we want to
manifest. This is not to say that a willful declaration enhances our abilities to manifest, but
this does create alignment between the internal, inceptional states of our subconscious,
and our conscious mind. This alignment hastens our manifestation.


Our subconscious is more prone to suggestion from the culture, educational system, and
family and friends, than our conscious mind and feelings. It is maneuvering to supply us
with the things we are programmed to desire. Our subconscious and our imaginative
faculty are very powerful manifestors, and our conscious mind, body, and feelings react to
the things they have created, as if someone or something else had created them. We
disassociate from them. We are good or we are not. We are deserving or we are not. We
are lucky or we are not.


Manifestation in spacetime duality always ensures that we can manifest all parts of the
spectrum. We can manifest fear, as well as we can manifest love. We can manifest stress
and anxiety, as well as we can manifest happiness and joy. We can manifest that new car or
home just as well as we can manifest their absence. Our local universe is what we manifest.
And this local universe is not simply the physical world. It is all dimensions we exist in, and
these include our Infinite Self.



                               © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                         2
We are capable of manifesting from the inceptional state of our Infinite Self, our finite self
or a partnership of the two. Almost all of the manifestation techniques, manuals, books,
podcasts and seminars are focused on the finite self acquiring the objects of their desire.
Again, this is not something to judge; it is something to be aware of. It is important to be
aware that we manifest our local universe, and that we can manifest from different states
of consciousness by choice.


I am suggesting that our manifestation abilities—those innate abilities—are refocused on
the internal partnership between our finite and Infinite Self. How this partnership can
manifest beliefs and behaviors that interpret and express imperfect, unconditional love. If
we focus there, we can manifest a local universe that is in service to One and All, on every
level in which we exist as an Infinite Self.


This is not a belief in religion or science. It’s something in between, because it is so perfectly
subjective, personal, and sovereign. It has not a single root in religion or science, yet its
echoes can be found in both. To manifest such a local universe does not mean we cannot
manifest abundance and harmony in our material life. They are more connected than they
are misaligned or working at cross-purposes.


Thus, manifestation is a refocusing on the internal partnership between our finite self and
our Infinite Self. It is being conscious of the program that insinuates itself into our
subconscious and is amplified by our imagination. It manifests beliefs and behaviors that
naturally evolve into an understanding of how they can be expressed into our local
universe, and how our lifestream can be re-interpreted into the broadest arc of imperfect,
unconditional love.


This is the manifestation of the Sovereign Path.




                               © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                          3
