                           Navigating the Sovereign Path



Question: The Sovereign Path is mentioned briefly in your previous essay about the
Unifying Principle. Can you explain it in more detail?


Answer:
Our path, from a religious, metaphysical, and philosophical perspective, is always changing,
even in the tiniest ways. Our beliefs deepen in one area and fade in another. Our attention
shifts. We see through the lens of spacetime, which is dynamic and never remains the
same from one week to the next.


All of our past beliefs were part of our Sovereign Path. They were expressions of belief
systems, around which organizations, seminars, media, or books curated these beliefs,
wrapping them in the warm clothing of rituals, ceremonies, stories, mantras, liturgies, and
mindfulness practices that formed communities. All these beliefs are held together by one
thing: they seem better suited to help us survive and prosper relative to past beliefs.


But in what worlds do we want to prosper? The Sovereign Path is concerned with two main
aspects:


1. Understanding that we are both finite and infinite consciousness, temporally bound
together as one, interpreting and expressing our local universe as free will sovereign
beings.
2. Recognizing our interconnectedness with all other life forms that are precisely like us, yet
are also exquisitely unique.


The Sovereign Path is focused on understanding these two aspects. The size and structure
of the universe, the Galactic Federation, the hierarchy of teachers and masters, various
conspiracy theories, the physics of consciousness, and ancient mythologies—these are not
the central concerns. They are not the main course nor the centerpiece of our path.


As individuals, we interact with these curated belief systems and decide what resonates
and what does not. This definitional process shapes us right up to our deathbeds. Yet few
of us contemplate how our beliefs might transform after death. Curated religions define
the after-death experience with such varied descriptions that it's hard to believe them all.
Why are they so different? Indigenous cultures describe it differently than contemporary


                               © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                      1
cultures. Christianity describes it differently than Hinduism. An atheist describes it
differently than a Buddhist.


Everyone has their opinion of the afterlife, but seldom do these opinions reflect how our
belief system will change when we recognize that we are not just our finite self. Behind this
finite self is an Infinite Self, and that consciousness represents who we truly are. The finite
self was merely a temporal lens of the Infinite Self, which itself is a lens of the Infinite Being
that is our planetary system, which in turn is a lens of the Multiversal Being that is the
Prime Creator.


Thus, our beliefs in the finite, local universe are one thing, and in the Infinite multiverse,
they are quite different. What is this difference? Let’s apply logic. Each life form is unique.
There is no dispute about this fact. There isn't a single path through spacetime duality.
Moreover, there aren't even clusters of similar paths. There is an infinite variety of paths,
and not one is the same.


Logic dictates: All life forms are unique because they have walked their own path in
spacetime. Because we are all unique life forms in both the finite and infinite realms, our
belief systems are unique. No individual belief system is exactly the same. While they may
share common ideas, these ideas filter into a singular consciousness and become granular
within one local universe, taking on different meanings, perspectives, and practices.


A belief system is always practiced. No being holds a belief that isn't practiced. If it is a
belief, it is practiced; if it is practiced, it is a belief. So logic would state that every single life
form has its own belief system, and this bundle of beliefs is practiced in the interpretation
and expression of their local universe.


Every local universe of every life form is an expression of a belief system that is being
interpreted by a unique belief system. Every single one, whether it is a tree, a whale, a
butterfly, an extraterrestrial, a bird, or a human. Thus, logic would then state: No two belief
systems of an individual consciousness are the same in either the finite, local universe or
the infinite multiverse. This is the Sovereign Path. I cannot take your path, and you cannot
take mine.


The finite path is outward; the infinite path is inward. You might think that logic would
dictate that the finite and infinite paths are different, and therefore, the Sovereign Path, by
definition, is not sovereign because it is two separate things. But the Sovereign Path occurs


                                 © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                              2
when the finite and infinite are braided together to form a singular path in both the finite
and infinite realms.


Imagine for a moment that as finite beings, we have unique belief systems, and as infinite
beings, we also have unique belief systems, but in the infinite realm, those beliefs have a
dynamic that the finite, local universe does not fully see or appreciate. The infinite is not
bounded by spacetime duality. Therefore, the beliefs that arise from the infinite are
different from those of the finite.


Our Infinite Self has a different bundle of beliefs than our finite self. The outward is
conditioned by the curated belief systems of organized religion, philosophy, culture,
language, and so on. Our inwardness is conditioned by the realization that we are part of
an intelligent system that expresses itself in spacetime as Nature upon a planetary system.
Depending on the extent of this realization, we might also realize that the intelligent system
of which we are part circuits all the way to the Prime Creator.


Our Infinite Self holds beliefs that our finite self is not always capable of even imagining.
This is why the Sovereign Path begins when the finite self elects to merge with the Infinite
Self. The finite self says, in effect, “I desire a partnership and union with the part of me that
is the whole of me: My Infinite Self. I begin to see the path, not as the path of my finite ego
and the path of my soul, but rather, as the Sovereign Path that is inward-bound, yet
expressed outwardly. And that path is one path that is mine alone.”


The Sovereign Path is not replicable. It cannot be forged by another. It is so unique that
every belief that arises from its energy and free will has never been birthed in exactly the
same way, just as there are not two physical specimens in nature that are exactly the same.


This does not curtail our enjoyment of the religions of our world or our culture. We are
communal life forms interconnected across all species. We simply rejoice that within every
moment of spacetime duality, we are all unique and one—simultaneously. Unique and one.
This is the behavioral practice of the system of intelligence we are all a part of. This
intelligence is what navigates the Sovereign Path. Any other kind of intelligence would fail
to navigate the Sovereign Path.


Thus, the Sovereign Path is the one we choose by aligning our infinite and finite selves as
one consciousness that is part of one consciousness that is part of one consciousness in an
infinite system of interconnection. We are a sovereign building block that is infinitely


                               © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                          3
dynamic and possesses free will. As such, we decide where we go, what we believe, who we
live among, what we express, how we move, what we say, and so on. All of that is us. We
are decidedly not a puppet, nor an avatar upon a simulated stage.


Even if our finite self is restrained by our local universe as a prisoner in a prison, or we are
penniless, we are not restrained inwardly. Our beliefs can be formed from both worlds:
finite and infinite, but those of the finite can be mixed into the infinite, and when they are,
they are always assimilated into the infinite, like a drop of indigo ink is assimilated into an
ocean.


With the Sovereign Path, we’re not trying to make others believe or behave like us because
we know it is impossible to believe like us at any meaningful level. Even the belief in the
Sovereign Integral consciousness is never the same. A thousand different names have been
sealed upon its face and body. Every belief system calls it something, yet whatever its given
name, it holds a different meaning, and each of us interprets that meaning a little
differently.


There is also a belief system that is innately our own. Our beliefs are unlike anyone else’s,
despite the surface similarities or the sharing of a name. Our individual belief system is
cobbled together by the Infinite Self—that part of us that is, as the name suggests, infinite
and singular.


We curate our beliefs every moment of every day, whether we are conscious of this act or
not. This curation begins in our first year of life. From a very young age, we begin to believe
in objects, people, and events, assigning relative value to each. Our belief system is based
on the transition from our Infinite Self to our finite self and its local universe. This local
universe is the unique lens through which we interpret physical reality. And we understand,
at some level, that this reality is both temporal and always changing.


When it is new, say, until we reach the age of 20, our belief system is largely untested. It is
more like a scientist preparing for a very complex experiment, assembling all the
instrumentation, documentation, and observers. The actual experiment is practicing the
belief system to see how it works—or doesn’t—in our individual life. We determine its
value, and those tests are conducted over the remainder of our lives.


Yet, how do we determine value? How is our belief system of value to us? Well, this
depends on the stage of our life, and the culture and community in which we live. If we are


                               © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                           4
traveling the Sovereign Path, we understand that we cannot compare our path with
another’s. We cannot judge one as better or worse. Even those paths that are focused on
the finite can still inspire the practice of infinite values.


However, the Infinite Self—by its very nature—is branded in an infinite number of ways.
Everyone sees and experiences this state of consciousness differently, just as everyone
approaches this state from a completely unique trajectory. Logically, how could there be
one definition of infinite consciousness?

The Sovereign Path is incomparable. It cannot be packaged and owned by another. It
cannot be branded as a single article of value. It can only be explained at its most generic
level: the braiding of the finite with the infinite to interpret and express our local universe
with imperfect, unconditional love and kindness. It is to localize the Infinite System within
spacetime duality.

All of the signal and noise from our finite, local universe is determined by our attention on
the continuum of fear and love. As artificial intelligence meets quantum computing, our
local universe will become increasingly curated and individualized. This, in part, is why
understanding the Sovereign Path is so crucial. We are not finite beings locked inside a
finite world of curated content and experiences.

We are an infinite, interconnected consciousness that is sovereign, and we possess the
ultimate gift: free will. We decide to create the Sovereign Path and take the inward journey,
or we decide not to. We may choose not to, in order to experience more of our finite self,
its local universe, its limitations, and its lessons. This choice does not carry judgment or
value. It is simply the nature of sovereign free will in the hands of an infinite being.

All different dimensions are nested within spacetime. The dimensions themselves are
infinite. The life forms within them are temporal, though they vary in their longevity,
according to the rules of a species and the spacetime in which it lives. This allows a species
to refresh its point of view through generational culture and innovation. This “refreshment”
powers evolution. New infinite beings inhabit finite life forms to provide a new lens and
opportunity to evolve the species' ability to localize the Infinite System.

There exists a species called the Infinite Self or Sovereign Integral. This is the species we all
exist within. It is the über-species that spans all spacetime and life forms. It is the species of
our interconnectedness, organizing itself as a planetary system. In our case, Earth is our
collective consciousness as a human species.



                                © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                        5
The Infinite Self within humanity holds the highest consciousness of duality upon Earth.
This unique understanding of duality defines the human species. As a species, humanity
has created—and continues to evolve—a highly complex system of duality. This duality
serves as the outward container and restraint of the finite self’s local universe.

The Infinite Being (our collective planetary consciousness) and our Infinite Self are
conjoined. Humanity is an experimental life form for the Infinite Self and the Infinite Being
to understand duality through a human lens, and through this understanding, to localize
the Infinite System within spacetime duality for a physical species.

Practicing imperfect, unconditional love as a human being implies, at some level,
understanding that we are integral facets of a planetary consciousness. As this
understanding shines more intensely, individuals commit to the Sovereign Path, aligning
themselves with the planet, which aligns both the individual and the planet to the Prime
Creator.

These individual impacts, though micro-alignments, are still significant. They exist. They
matter. They align instead of misalign. They create coherence instead of decoherence. They
foster interconnection instead of disconnection. They generate love instead of indifference
or hate. This is the duality of free will.

We awaken one at a time. It is not a singular opening of an eyelid but, for all practical
purposes, an infinite number of eyelids opening across the continuum of spacetime duality
in all dimensions.

One final definition of the Sovereign Path emerges when we drop the artifice,
embellishments, and definitions of others to contemplate for ourselves the nature of who
we are and why we are here. In this process, we apply the logic of deepening
understanding. We continuously contemplate, imagine, and feel the logic of answering the
questions: "Why am I here?" and "Why do I exist?" at every stage of our lives.

This is fundamental to the Sovereign Path. Through this, we align and connect—not
because our answers are the same, but because we begin to associate with a new species.
We understand that while we are representatives of the human species, more importantly,
we represent the Infinite Being and ultimately the Prime Creator.

It is easy to apply ready-made answers to these fundamental questions. Every religion and
philosophy has its ready-made answers or deflections, as do secular cultures. We can
copy-paste those answers, but they do not align us to the Sovereign Path. We remain


                                © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                      6
disconnected because, by definition, those ready-made answers are not sovereign. They
are not from our Sovereign Path. They are not from our inner ear, listening to our inner
voice.

Does this practice require a lot of time and discipline? It depends on the individual. The
more critical issue is continuity over time. It is not a one-and-done practice. It is not an
event, no matter how revealing that event may have been. It is a continual, infinite process
of revealing and unraveling, not limited to our finite life or even finite lives.

Can we be curious about timelines, parallel universes, extraterrestrials, interdimensionals,
masters, gurus, teachings, and new ideas? Of course. Information from the outside informs
our Infinite Self about the local universe we live within and interact with. They are
reminders and signposts of who our finite self is and how it has configured and engineered
its local universe.

The bottom line is that the Sovereign Path becomes our finite-infinite life journey. It
encompasses everything we imagine, think, feel, and do. The Infinite Self is the Sovereign
Integral consciousness contained within a singular identity. It is simultaneously finite and
infinite, separate and interconnected. It is cradled in moments of spacetime, where every
moment holds the potential to reveal a deeper aspect of who we are and why we are here.




                               © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                         7
