                                         Our Purpose


Question:
If we are to believe that we are a soul, and we are eternal therein, what then, is our purpose for
being installed inside a human body for 80 years in a reality that seems destined to be ruled by
the follies of the lowest common denominator? The worst of us rules. So, in that chaos, what is
our purpose if we are a soul?


Answer:
Your question is of three dimensions: the first is the idea of who we are, the soul. The
second is the idea that the soul is installed within a human reality. The third is the notion
that human reality is ruled by outside forces that represent our lowest common
denominator.


We can agree on the first one, we are indeed a soul, however, that definition of “soul” varies
widely. Thus, it’s worth the effort to provide a unifying definition. Our soul is an infinite
state of consciousness that is within a local universe that spans multiple dimensions of
spacetime. It is a unique expression of the One and All, as a result of its infinite journeying
within spacetime dimensions. Our soul is interconnected to all infinite expressions of One
and All. It is a lens of the All, and this “lens” looks outward as an infinite soul; and inward as
a human being or a grasshopper or ficus plant.


Our soul is what I refer to as the Sovereign Integral. It is the Sovereign that is the infinite,
individualized identity of the soul, and it is the Integral that is the infinite hub in the
network of Sovereigns that constitutes the One and All.


With that definition in mind, let’s place our attention on the second construct: That the soul
is installed within a human reality. In your choice of words it would seem that you have a
belief in predestination, as if an outside force or programmer installed the soul into the
human matrix like an application is installed on an operating system inside a computer.


The concept of predestination or even the hint of diminished free will, exists because we
assign human ignorance to the soul. We believe it is inept, dormant, unawake, and at the
extreme, nonexistent. If the soul is of this nature, then surely it cannot be in control, and if
it is not in control, then it is an extension of fate, destiny, karma, sin, biology, etc. In other
words, those forces control it.


                                © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                            1
This is not the case if we understand the Sovereign Integral consciousness. The Sovereign is
the Infinite Self, it is this element that we truly are. This is the element that occupies the
eternal moment. The physical bodies and their correlative local universes are the
classrooms, the field trips, and experimental labs of our Sovereign. The educational
program and school itself is of our creation. And we do this principally through the tapestry
of our beliefs and our understanding of the Integral Knowledge.


Integral Knowledge is the knowledge that we are both an infinite consciousness and
interconnected to the wholeness of Nature in all dimensions of existence. That this
interconnection is carried out and enabled by an intelligence that we are all a part of, and
in certainty, we learn from, live within, and express from our vibration of existence within
our local universe.


A consciousness of this nature is not able to dictate because the outcome of all learning
would be inauthentic and therefore less meaningful. Free will was the required subsystem
to evolve universal intelligence through experiential learning. Each of us—as Sovereign
Integrals within spacetime—exist within free will to establish our beliefs as we desire. We
also establish the extent of how conscious or unconscious we are of our self-created
tapestry of beliefs.


No one or no thing installs us upon a human matrix or gives us our beliefs. We are free,
infinite beings interconnected within an infinitely evolving intelligence that is never
singular, yet it lives as a unified intelligence. And this unified intelligence is what we are at
that point of interconnection. At the point where we are a human being under the yoke of
survival, we are generally not aware of this interconnection. Not even a tiny bit. At least for
most of us.


And yet, this idea of us being a slave or subject to an outside force, regardless of how we
define this outside force, is proportional to its influence in our understanding of who we
are. If we believe that demons, our karma, this prison reality, the powers that be, our sinful
natures, our need to survival, and a hundred other things are the outside forces that
dictate how we believe and therefore how we live, then we succumbed to a view of
ourselves that is diminished.


If we see ourselves as fragile, disconnected and naive we have donned the perspective of
fate, existential destiny decreed by a superior power of one sort or another. We have


                                © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                          2
become the effect of a cause we do not understand, and this feeling, this belief, is at the
root of humanity’s problems. Regardless of what we tell ourselves and others what we
believe, we have a fundamental belief in this as a collective species at this time.


We collectively believe, to one extent or another, that the lowest of our kind defines how
we live. And this has never been true, nor will it ever. We are Sovereigns and each
Sovereign is Integral with all other Sovereigns. The number of Sovereigns is infinite, not
because they continue to be created, but because they transcend the worlds of numbers
and words. There is an intelligence that none of us can fully appreciate. The vast majority of
us humans do not even contemplate this intelligence, naively accepting the collective
intelligence of the lowest common denominator of a human being.


There is the collective intelligence of a planetary species, and there is the universal
intelligence of an infinite being that is One and All—the collective of all species, of all
spacetimes, all dimensions of an infinite multiverse. If we believe in the collective
intelligence of a species and how it expresses itself through politics, religion, government,
education and so on, we can very quickly be confused and live in despair.


If we believe in the collective, universal intelligence of an infinite being of which we are all a
part, then we can begin to understand that no one dictates. No one defines our beliefs for
the simple reason that our beliefs—the ones that are fundamental—are within each of us.
We can be in prison or homeless, and yet still believe in these fundamental truths of who
we are as a Sovereign Integral. As an infinite consciousness. As a member of the human
species. As an individual human living day-to-day.


We are all of those. They coexist. We have simply put our attention on the individual human
first and last.


We can believe we coexist in all of these states, and adopt this perspective as our practice
of living day-to-day. It is the lens we use to look outward into our local universe. We invite
and honor that part of us that is the Sovereign Integral consciousness, to live within our
human self. To be present. To meet the lowest common denominator of our species with
the highest common denominator of our true selves.


Perhaps this is the purpose your questions really asked about. Perhaps, at the broadest
level, this is why we live in a human body.



                               © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                         3
