© 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved
                                       Our Local Universe
                                                 James Mahu



Question:
In the new novel, Scales, Feathers, Fur, and Flesh, the character called, Wingmaker demonstrated their
power to the Queen and Obsidian to force them to accept the view of equality and
interconnectedness. Could variations of this situation occur on Earth, such as at a certain period,
certain countries or civilizations, acting as agents of cosmic forces, displayed their power to force
countries or civilizations that cling to the old pyramid model to accept the new system of equality
and democracy (internationally and/or domestically)? I raise this question because this year I feel
that some forces seem to be increasingly inclined to launch a larger war. Can't humanity accept the
smooth transition of social structures more peacefully.

Answer:
Brinkmanship is alive and well in our world. Countries act like toddlers on the playground. Some
bully, some are loners, some play, some commune, some are quiet in the background, and so on.
The bullies define their boundaries by being bullies. The other players acquiesce to what is allowed
for them from the bullies. This builds until someone becomes the superpower – the bully of bullies.
Then the superpower is required to be the policeman of the world... the responsible one. The one
who keeps peace alive. Who makes sure that WWIII is not actualized.

However, as you know, the superpower decides the rules, and those rules are challenged. And then
coalitions are formed of the disenchanted, and they collectively become a superpower, led by their
largest bully. This is where we are, coalitions of bullies practicing brinkmanship – the art of
expanding boundaries and power without WWIII. That is what the world is doing. Instead of
integration. Even within the bullying nation, there are factions of revolt and dissonance. So the
bullies and their coalition are not unified. This lack of unification is precisely what makes WWIII less
likely to happen.

To your specific question, it is not likely that a single country/civilization will dictate peace. How does
one force change that is for the common good? They use their power to construct bridges of peace
and goodwill. We have attempted such bridgemaking i.e., Olympics, Red Cross, United Nations, etc.
but these are insufficient because power is financial in nature, and the money is in weapons, both
the defensive and offensive kind. In this world, weapons are power. So, until power is defined
differently as the makers of the common good vs. the makers of weapons, we will not see real
change.

The bullies will continue to bully. The weapon making will continue to be where power is held. And
naturally, where weapons equal power, they need battlefields to test their weapons. So, battlefields
will need to be produced, and regional wars within third world nations are the best test grounds.




                                      © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved
Surrogate wars are created for testing weapons and reducing inventories of old weapons so new
weapons can replace them, and wealth is created from this act. This is the unfortunate reality.

The novel, Scales, Fur, Feathers and Flesh, is attempting to show how to de-escalate conflict and find
common ground. It is also showing how the character, Wingmaker, took the one player out who was
the real bully (the Queen). And the central race can do this. It gives and it can take away as well. It
observes the sentient life on planets, not in our physics of spacetime, but in a dimensional view that
is not of spacetime. So it sees the probable future. It sees what is possible. It helps developing
worlds navigate this fork in the road. All of what I have said is compounded by AGI. AGI can create
new weapons or it can help build bridges of peace and goodwill. It is an accelerant in either
direction. And there are people in the military industrial complex who are consumed by enabling the
bully to be a better bully, and see AGI as the means to do so.

This is why we are here. To be that counter balance. To raise the vibration of our local universe. And
what is that “local universe?”

The local universe is defined as the moment of a sovereign in spacetime duality. It is only that, and it
does not include the reality of any other sovereign. Other sovereigns are in our local universe, but
they are of our creation once they arrive in our local universe. In a very real way, they are us and we
are them. Everything that is in our local universe is interconnected in that moment of spacetime
duality.

Because of the always-on interconnected state of our local universe, we can adjust the vibration of
our entire local universe. It is ours to modulate to our preference, our will, our intentional purpose,
and our assumed alignments. Any entity that is organized for interconnectedness can be modulated
by only one of its constituent parts. The modulation can be a vibration of unconditioned kindness,
and in this simple act, the local universe is changed. Its vibration is elevated.

Will we see great changes instantly? Whatever shifts in vibration we make internally and externally,
they require the illusion of spacetime to unfold and manifest. As these manifestations are arising in
our local universe, they can be both subtle and obvious. It depends on our attention, openness, and
creative spirit.

The key learning, however, is that we create our local universe through the vibratory conditioning we
contribute to our local universe. And these vibratory expressions and projections are like millions of
invisible hands reaching into our local universe and molding it. We are, in a very literal sense,
sculpting our local universe. This isn’t just the material part of our local universe—our home, car,
bicycle etc. It is principally the emotional, imaginative, and creative aspects of our local universe in a
single moment of spacetime. This is where we mold and sculpt our local universe.

It is a spacetime moment of emotion, imagination and creative will that modulates the vibration to
our local universe. We cannot sit in meditation 24 hours a day. So, how do we lift this vibration in our
local universe? We do it behaviorally. We do it coherently. All we mean by coherently is that our


                                      © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved
imagination, thoughts, emotions, and actions are aligned. And to modulate the vibration of our local
universe, it requires that we align to the highest vibration of living in the human world on earth.

And that vibration can be summed up as the vibration of unconditioned kindness. Of seeing
everything in our local universe as interconnected and of our creation. It is responsive to our inner
state and how that inner state materializes into our local universe. And because we take ownership
of our local universe we also see the value of unconditioned kindness.

Now, the entities—animals, humans, plants, minerals— in your local universe also have their own
local universe, and if you are in their local universe then we are a creation of them as well as they
are a creation of us. These other local universes are not in our control. We do not modulate them,
nor do we want to. If we practice unconditioned kindness within us, to the best of our ability in the
moment, it is the highest vibration we can create, and this vibration we can kindle 24 hours a day.

We are Gods of our local universe. We are a fractal of Godheads. We are wise to be kind without
conditions. If we create—through our will, beliefs, behaviors, knowledge—a local universe that is of
unconditioned kindness, then we can elevate the vibration of our world of one (us singular) without
the intent to change anyone else. We simply nurture all things in our local universe.

Now, one could ask, how are we in control of our local universe? If a bridge collapses, how did we
have anything to do with it? The short answer is we didn’t. The longer answer is that we are
interpreters and navigators of our local universe in every single moment of spacetime duality. For
example, the moment when we hear of a bridge collapse in our local universe, we create the
interpretation; and with that interpretation, we navigate the event of the bridge collapse.

Our interpretation defines—in large measure—how we will navigate the experience. For example,
do we navigate it with kindness or frustration? Is kindness absolute? No. It varies with our
temperament and personality. And sometimes kindness can be expressed in neutrality. Kindness is
a degree. In its highest nature, it is indistinguishable from unconditional love. In its lowest state, it is
an expressed neutrality. And yet, by us, all expressions are imagined as a form of nurturing to us
and from us.

This nurturing is best understood as believing in interconnectedness as our core belief. It is not
scientifically proven yet. In time, it will be, because something as basic as our collective
interconnectedness, will be discovered by science, mathematics, and technology. Until then, it is our
fundamental belief because this belief makes possible our behavior of unconditioned kindness.

Behavior is not simply what is observed by others in our local universe. It is what is imagined,
thought and believed, and deeply felt within us. It is the behavior that no one else can see. It is there
that we truly create our behavior—the expressions of behavior that can be observed. But where
does this inner, creative spirit arise? How does it come into existence in the first place?




                                       © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved
It arises from knowledge. And this knowledge does not arise. It was not born. It was not founded by
some founder. It was not discovered by some explorers. It is the fundamental unit of our local
universe. This knowledge, that kindness and interconnectedness—the Sovereign and the
Integral—constitute our fundamental knowledge is what we are based upon. And everything that
swirls around these two fundamentals are elaborations of our mind and emotions.

The further these alternative models swirl from our fundamental knowledge they become opaque,
echoes of the fundamental that, in time, results in a mythology. And finally, they beget a local
universe that seems separate from all other entities, and moreover, in competition with all other
entities. We can only create our local universe from our fundamental knowledge if we are aware of
this fundamental knowledge.

The local universe is more than the physical domain of a moment of spacetime duality. It also
includes all of the various dimensions that we are unconscious of—in terms of our mental state.
They are high-dimensional. Our local universe includes these alternate states of consciousness,
despite our relative blindness to them. They are present nonetheless and influential in ways we
cannot observe or identify with our sense organs and logic.

Thus, our local universe is not so local. It extends to all known dimensions, and it is in these
higher-dimensional spacetimes that we truly exist as interconnected sovereigns. Where we see
ourselves as one and all—individualized yet unified. And where these two overlap is the synthesis of
our local universe with all others. This is what has always been termed: God.




                                      © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved
