© 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved   Page 1
                             Our Sovereign, Infinite Self



Question: Why is the physical, material world so magnetic that we seem unable to shift
our attention to our inward self—that part that you call the Infinite Self or Sovereign
Integral?


Answer: We are creatures born of survival. In order to survive, we had to tune our
senses and entire consciousness upon the goal of survival, or we, as a species, would
die out within 100 generations. A species can devolve more rapidly than it can evolve if
its survival is unmatched to its physical environment.


The human species, unlike others, had the ability to survive amidst the harvest of
environments. It did this because of its ability to tune its consciousness to survival. To
marshal group consciousness, creating civilizations and culture, even before the
invention of the wheel.


We have become—as a result of technology—less concerned about survival and more
about thriving within civilization and culture. Allowing our passions and creativity to
flourish amid the exponential growth of human-invented technologies. We are thus split
between the worlds of survival and all of its frustrations and incessant lessons, and the
world of fleshing out our unique personality, aspirations, and curiosities. This split is
widening as we age. The two worlds are competing for our attention.


The ratio of dominance, for most people, leans heavily upon physical survival. This is
where we place our attention, and for good reason. Without the survival question
answered, the passion and creativity side will never exist in dominance. It will not
become an equal reality that partners with our survival reality. In other words, instead
of being frustrated and angry at it, we see it as a necessary balance as we venture into
the understanding of our deepest self.


The magnetics of physical reality are a result of our consciousness—over hundreds of
thousands of years—adapting to the function of survival in order to evolve a version of
itself that is adapted to physical reality, while enabling it to express itself as a spiritual
being within the physical realm. This is becoming our state of consciousness, not in one
lifetime, but in tens of thousands of lifetimes.


We, as a spiritual consciousness, adapt to the physical dimensions of spacetime and
duality, free will, separation, and survival. All of these factors impinge upon our
consciousness the moment we embody, and those survival instincts that are simply an

                     © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved         Page 2
innate part of our physical body step in, and they guide us. They become our stewards,
guardians, and teachers. They even become our family and sense of home. We become
a fixture of the culture we live in, and the old adage that the last thing a fish notices is
water becomes a truth.


Once survival is achieved and we reach a state of relative maturity, we can relax a bit
and allocate more time to our passions and creativity. This holds for both the individual
and the species at large. We can begin to dive within as the outside world becomes less
of a threat to our survival. The alternative is to become comfortable and lazy, and we
instinctively know that this is not who we are. If we were meant to be comfortable and
lazy, we would not have embodied within spacetime.


There is a reason that everyone has embodied. We have chosen to experience
embodiments in spacetime and create our own local universe. The creation of a local
universe is unimaginably intricate and creative, enmeshed in an infinite diversity of
universes—each local and subjective. And yet few of us realize this, and thus, we’re
unable to appreciate this creative ability we each possess. We might berate ourselves
that we lack emotional control, intellectual capacities, spiritual knowledge, and financial
means, yet we have created our local universe.


We have created it through an infinite number of choices. Just as a sculptor makes a
million strikes of a chisel to reveal the hand that emerges from within the block of
marble, we do this every single day of our life. Our local universe emerges like a
sculpture from a block of wood or stone. Our chisel marks are the decisions we make
from the intentions of our behaviors and beliefs.


The physical world of spacetime duality is real. It is absolutely real, but it is not solely
physical. And that is the whole point of embodiment: to come to this realization. To
understand that what is before us as a physical thing is also a nonphysical thing. And
what is behind the nonphysical thing is the interconnectedness that all things are a part
of. And what is behind that is unknown, we only know it to be infinite and in the clearest
sense, nonexistent.


Nonexistence is a part of duality. The thing that interconnects us is not dual in nature,
and this is precisely why our senses, our body, our minds, even our hearts, are tuned to
the dual nature of spacetime. And this is how our local universes are connected: We
created the points of interaction so we can collectively decide to move to a new
understanding of who we are. The thing that we are is entirely unimaginable to our
tuned spacetime consciousness. It doesn’t see it, hear it, feel it, or even desire it. The
world of survival is born into us from a chain of ancestry we barely grasp.

                      © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved       Page 3
The lingering question is: How do we unravel ourselves from this instinctive, DNA-driven
perception that survival is our guide? Maybe a passion or two is allowed in our lives, but
generally, the prospect of experiencing and expressing who we truly are is slim to none.
How do we lift those odds? How do we remember who we are?


This is done through behavioral coherence. Behavioral coherence, as I define it, is the
ability to align the imaginative, mental, emotional, and behavioral aspects of our human
self with the love-centered kindness of our Infinite Self. It is to be love and kindness
without condition to the best of our ability in our local universe.


If we do this, even as we figure out our survival, how to express who we are, and how
we can become a human expression of our Infinite Self. We can then become
increasingly aligned to the Project. And this Project is the one whose arc is without
beginning or end, as mind-warping as that is. This Project is what pulls us from the
riveting nature of physical reality and awakens us.


This Project is the one in which we are flowing between dimensions. When we have no
riveting of our attention for the sake of survival or group identity. We see ourselves as
all things coordinated into one thing, and that is coordinated within all things of a higher
dimension, and this ladder is as infinite as we are. Our realization of this Project is part
of our local universe. It is a part of everyone’s.


Not all of us desire to activate this realization in our local universe. We are more like
scientific voyeurs who want to see it in others first. See how they do it. How they
prescribe for others what they have done. Yet, this is already within our local universe.
We always carry it with us. It is us. That part that is whole. And because it is whole, and
survival dictates that we perceive the parts, wholeness has become unobserved.


But it remains observable. We simply have to practice behavioral coherence to see it.
This is what unlocks the Infinite Self long enough for us to glimpse it. To feel it move our
hands. To observe through our eyes. To hear its voice through our mind. We learn
through this behavioral coherence how to remodel our local universe and to identify the
point of interaction with all other local universes.


This is the Project we all came to serve. Not a single one of us, across all species, has an
alternative fundamental purpose. Each of us is an artist of unimaginable creative power
that has been subdued by a DNA-driven consciousness tuned to survive. If we desire to
awaken to this idea, then behavioral coherence is a way to awaken so we can appreciate


                     © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved      Page 4
who we are, why we chose to be here, and how we can remodel our local universe to
become more of reflection of our Infinite, Sovereign Self.




                    © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved   Page 5
