                                 Our Collective Reality
                                           James Mahu


Question:
What if this is just a prison planet? And our overlords want us to believe in all of this
oneness, unity, God, and the Golden Rule, because it simply makes us more compliant?
What if we’re just prisoners inside a simulation or illusionary world without knowing or
understanding why we are inside such a prison-like reality?


Answer:
If we grant that interconnection can only arise from intelligence, and the intelligence that
utilizes interconnection must operate across bodies; then this intelligence is not contained
in one body. Take trees for example, we’re just learning—through the lens of science—that
trees communicate amongst themselves through their roots and the soil within a forest.
There is a larger entity than one tree. There’s a social group that communicates.


If trees and plants can do this, why can’t other organisms? How does one contain this
intelligence once it is not bound by a singular body? The intelligence to communicate
across bodies is universal. At every scale of life there is communication. The language of
survival and lineage live within all species. This language is not contained or curtailed. It
cannot be held or suppressed. It is the universal intelligence individualized, socialized and
then organized into one clarity and coherence of one organism.


Why would such an organism create a prison planet? In other words, a planet that
appeared to be one thing—a powerful, magnetic, amazing, complex theater of form, color,
movement, and individualized intelligence; and then, hide its true nature so we all believe
we are free when we are not? All of this so we would refuse to believe that we are
individual centers of co-creation, interconnected to one another through high-dimensional
elements of our consciousness. And yet, it was all a ruse. An illusion.


Why would an intelligence of that nature that actually animates Nature, be so inclined to be
inauthentic, deceptive, or even indifferent?


The facade of high dimensionality is low dimensionality. Low dimensionality creates relative
ignorance of high dimensionality. In this relative ignorance, it’s easy to believe that the
intelligence of low dimensionality could be corrupted because of free will and the inequity
of power. However, as we watch science increasingly validate that we are interconnected

                               © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                          1
not only intra-species, but all species, all forms of life in all spacetimes. And that the
intelligence of our planet is but an atom in the infinite cells of the one, many and all
consciousness.


The scale of the intelligence is utterly without bounds, and so, why would such an
intelligence create prisons? Or seek to control? The only way this universal intelligence can
individualize itself is by creating spacetime within low dimensionality. And in this
spacetime, new forms are created as part of this intelligence, seeking to explore its created
world. The only way the All that is One can gain authentic experience is to grant its
individual life forms in spacetime, free will. To enable each of us to use our
DNA-apportioned, low dimensional intelligence, to regain access to its high dimensional
intelligence.


Now, we could say that the bridge to high dimensional intelligence is controlled by those in
power at the levels of government and beyond, but these are simply individualized life
forms that are experiencing their reality as free will entities. The intelligence of love—that
thing that interconnects us—is not controlling. It is not making a prison or a heaven. It is
not trying to change or oppress. It is simply experiencing spacetime dimensionality as an
explorer seeking authentic experience that enlarges and evolves Its scope of
understanding.


If you believe that the scope of our collective intelligence is so finite that it would contain
humanity inside a prison cell not of its own making, then you believe the intelligence is not
interconnected. It is singular. It is a God cut off from life and human experience, rather
than an intelligence that is living life through all experiences. These are two very different
beliefs. One is validated through religious books, and one is being validated through our
emerging sciences.


There will undoubtedly be, and already is, resistance to this scientific proof. This is because
it requires a total realignment of our system of belief. We realign to the notion that we are
an individualized, infinite entity of consciousness that interconnects with all other forms
and expressions of life. That this fundamental belief requires us to see ourselves as one
entity, despite the fact that our reality tells us we are not. It requires us to therefore be of
understanding and express kindness into our local universe. To bring a higher harmony to
our local universe—our individualized moment of infinite spacetime that’s always with us.




                               © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                            2
The social tug of war that plays out in public policy, judicial judgment, political legislation
and religious morality, these are expressions of the interlocked nature of an accelerator
and a brake. If you seek a destination, whatever vehicle you take, it requires both a system
to brake as well as accelerate. The two functions constitute a system of travel. When we
travel collectively through spacetime, we divide into functions of a brake and accelerator,
yet these two functions are both necessary to achieve the goal of arriving at our
destination.


Some might believe that the “brake” is the dark force, conspiring to entrap us. Those of us
who are part of the “accelerator” are particularly susceptible to believe this, because the
brake is getting in our way. It is a point of frustration that limits our speed to our
destination. When indeed, high dimensional intelligence cannot be contained because it is
all.




                               © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                            3
