                            The Nature of Belief Constructs
                                             James Mahu



Question: If our beliefs create our reality, how do we make sure that our beliefs support our
highest possible reality?


Response: Virtually every metaphysical and spiritual path has one thing in common: Our
belief system affects our reality. Some of these will go so far as to affirm that our beliefs are
our reality. They are interchangeable, which is to say, what you believe determines what
you experience, and what you experience determines what you believe. They are symbiotic.
They mesh and cocreate like two, independent streams that come together to create a
single river (reality).


Beliefs, if they hold such importance in our lives, how to reform them into practical,
positive, and ever-present influences in our lives would be essential to understand.
However, in order to understand the importance of beliefs, we must understand some
fundamental constructs that undergird our belief system, and therefore, our reality. These
are broad brushstrokes, lacking detail, however, they provide an energetic definition. I refer
to these as Belief Constructs:


    ●   One and All – This defines First Source and Source Intelligence. First Source being
        the One, and Source Intelligence being the All. In religious works these would be
        called God and Spirit.
    ●   One, many and all consciousness – This is the Sovereign Integral. That aspect of
        ourselves that is infinite, yet individualized as a sovereign entity that is
        simultaneously interconnected with all existence. It remains forever an integral and
        important aspect of One and All. In religious and metaphysical works this would be
        called the soul.
    ●   Wholeness – This is the Allness and Integral nature of existence. There is existence
        and non-existence, and they are infinite yet separate in infinitude. That is to say,
        that which is non-existent will remain so in infinity, and that which is existent, will
        also remain so in infinity. The aspect that exists can only exist in wholeness because
        it is an aspect of the One and All, regardless of its incarnational structure and reality.
        This construct is not of spacetime. It is not of duality. It is not of dimensionality. It is
        the realm of One and All, which is the only realm in which true wholeness can exist
        experientially. All other experiences of wholeness are echoes of the One and All,


                                  © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved
                                                                                                       1
    stepped down in order to embody within spacetime duality. They feel like oneness
    and unity, yet they remain an echo of the consciousness of One and All.
●   Free Will – This is the method through which the One and All creates authentic
    learning for all its parts. If the One and All controlled the will of its creation in all its
    various species, it would control the learning, and a bias would be expressed, and
    therefore learning would be inauthentic to the density of spacetime duality. The
    ability to bring higher dimensional understanding into lower dimensional
    spacetimes would be thwarted by this bias.
●   Design = Purpose – There was a design in the inception of existence. Existence is
    the result of creation, and creation is the result of purpose. Purpose is the result of
    design. Design is the result of the will of One and All. Thus, it is Will that determines
    all of existence. This Will comes from One and All, and simply because of this, we
    exist, we are infinite, we are always, and we are connected to One and All, and
    therefore all existence. This results in a purpose of learning how to embody within
    the lower dimensions of the learning centers we call planets and solar bodies, and
    remain aligned to One and All.
●   Reality-Making Incarnations – The Sovereign Integral incarnates into densities that
    provide unique experience in dream-like realities. These dream-like realities provide
    spacetime dimensionality and duality, with free will and sovereign expression. These
    incarnations can be as simple as a fruit fly or as complex as a sentient being of
    near-infinite intelligence, and everywhere in between. This is particularly important
    to understand that you exist as a Sovereign Integral first and foremost. Its reality is
    not a simulation or dream; meaning, it is not born, lives, and dies. It exists as an
    infinite individuality that is forever in connection to One and All. The incarnational
    aspects of our Sovereign Integral are the lens through which it learns how to expand
    its understanding in dimensionality—the same as One and All. This is why the
    Sovereign Integral and First Source (One and All) are aligned, cocreators, in a
    post-inception existence. Everyone and everything is aligned, even in entropy and
    discord, beauty and ugliness, love and hate. The alignment is unseen in the
    reality-making mechanism of the physical body. Our hyperfocus on the dream and
    simulation of three-dimensional realities—their density of vibration, their duality of
    decisions, their dynamic modulation, and their deafening silence of the inmost
    self—has blinded us to the scope of who we are. It has kept the small picture
    looming over the big picture, and we fall into the trap of polarity engagement. We
    separate into family, packs, tribes, organizations, societies, and species.
●   Reality Simulations – Reality in spacetime duality is experienced in a singular
    moment, and that moment, when it is part of spacetime duality, is held within a


                               © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved
                                                                                                    2
       simulation or dream. The part of us that is truly us—the Sovereign Integral—is the
       creator of the simulation that our bodies, minds, subconscious, egos, and emotions
       experience through the interpretive power we invest in our Sovereign Integral
       consciousness. If we do not invest anything in our Sovereign Integral consciousness,
       then our simulation is exclusively designed for our human identity, Our identity as
       an incarnational existence begins with our ego, our body, our mind’s will, and our
       emotional beliefs; not with the Sovereign Integral, which creates the simulation. No
       outside intelligence or technology creates the simulation of our experience in
       spacetime duality. The creator is us, and within each species, there is a collective us
       (the many). The One and All creates the infinite. The infinite creates the universal.
       The universal creates the collective species. The collective species creates the
       individual. The individual creates its reality of spacetime duality. The individual’s
       reality creates a lens for One and All. This is the holographic simulation that exists
       across all levels of existence, all species, all spacetimes, and yet, no reality is the
       same.
   ●   Expansion – The purpose of existence in density is to expand the one, many and all
       consciousness of the One and All into dimensionality so that all dimensions in
       spacetime have an aspect within it that holds and offers the flame of One and All
       intelligence. This requires the ongoing expansion of light into darkness. Of wisdom
       into ignorance. Of love into absence. More than that is the harmonization of a
       galaxy for the benefits of peace and the shared objective to expand wisdom,
       understanding, and sustainable harmony.


Our belief constructs, once understood, become the foundation of our belief system at its
most fundamental level. When we can feel and imagine these constructs, and begin to see
them take expression in our behaviors, we can begin to more easily believe in them, and
from there, the echoes of this heightened sense of our Sovereign Integral, of the structure
of a higher reality that creates our life, we can more easily flow within the realities of our
creation.


It does not mean we remain enraptured, strumming a harp in the most beautiful of
imaginable worlds. That we flow easily through life, untouched by challenges and
difficulties. It means we understand and believe in a higher reality that includes these
fundamental belief constructs. We do this not because we desire to manifest something or
even to change the world. We do this in order to feel aligned to One and All, which is our
most fundamental expression of love.




                                 © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved
                                                                                                 3
The simulations of an infinite number of Sovereign Integrals interact, sometimes
harmoniously and sometimes in utter conflict. And this, more than any other factor, is a
result of the educational systems of our reality. It has been left to religion, personal
development, and philosophy to educate our young, but these constructs from religion and
theology are tired and woven into mythology. The constructs of philosophy are so
needlessly complicated as to numb the mind. While the constructs of personal
development are practical, but not of the higher reality.


And even if these sources of education held the truth of this higher reality in clear language
without any sense of ownership or control, these institutions only attract a small
percentage of the total population, and therefore, simulations are corrupted by the lack of
education regarding the higher reality of belief constructs.


The construct of reality simulation pairs beautifully with synchronicity. When we experience
what Carl Jung referred to as synchronicity (a meaningful coincidence) we understand that
our core self is communicating with us. It is as if it is saying:


“I am showing you that I exist, and what you experience is a consequence of my-our creation
and interpretation. What is born within me, is experienced by you differently, than what is born
within your species. Understand this difference, and you will be guided.”


There is the collective us that is an outside influence, and there is the sovereign us that is the
internal interpreter who creates definitions and beliefs from personal experience, and then
creates its reality. It is wise to use our imaginative power to interact with our sovereign,
innermost self. We can do this through a form of prayer or meditation. It is an access that
we grant ourselves. A priority of our life’s mission.


In order to grant ourselves access we can form a belief in the aforementioned constructs.
Not as I have laid them out, but as we interpret them. Always our interpretation is what
guides us. If we all read the same book, we will all have a different interpretation of that
book. This is the law of granularity. If you measure a shoreline in meters, it might be a
hundred miles long, but if you zoom in, and measure it at the resolution of a nanometer,
the distance of that same shoreline might be a million miles long. Similarly, if you measure
the granularity of our beliefs in high resolution, the differences are staggeringly large, even
among the same species.




                                  © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved
                                                                                                   4
This difference in belief is precisely what creates social conditioning, instinctual awareness,
collective unconscious reasoning, and even intuition derives its existence from this
difference in our sovereign beliefs. They are bundled together in the collective of a
species—all species—but they are nonetheless, not fundamental. They are not our
reality-making machinery. They influence, but they do not create. And this is because we
are sovereign interpreters with free will.


We decide our influences. We decide our interpretations. We decide what we believe. There
is no one outside who can take those decisions away. Thus, our beliefs, those constructs,
define our navigational path within the reality created by our Sovereign Integral. We do not
need to tell another individual how we believe; let us see how we believe. These belief
constructs, if they are to have value to us in our three-dimensional reality and to the One
and All, they end up in our behaviors. For some this can happen almost instantly, and for
others it may seem that it never happens.


For those in the latter category, the beliefs we carry inside us are layered mostly as a result
of the arrow of time. These layers of belief are generally built on the reality of our ego,
mind, and emotions traveling through three-dimensional spatial moments. These beliefs
constitute who you have been, and they will most likely try to hold onto us. They have a
grip and they are not likely to let go until they feel the new belief constructs are practical in
the sense of helping to create a better three-dimensional reality.


And this is the odd thing about these belief constructs. They do not have an expectation or
a real practical, down-to-earth expected outcome like manifesting more financial security, a
new relationship or a better career. Those are belief constructs that have practical purpose.
These belief constructs, aforementioned in this paper, do not have an expectation other
than to form alignment.


Again, there is no right or wrong way. There is only our way. We decide. We allow all things
to exist, because it is One and All, and our belief constructs aspire to be aligned to the will
of One and All. And alignment is, as said before, our expression of love to One and All. To
hold to this alignment with a steadfast commitment is perhaps our highest expression of
human love to One and All.




                                 © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved
                                                                                                    5
