                       The Philosophy of the Local Universe



Question:
I believe I understand your concept of the local universe, but what I don’t understand is
why it matters. Why do we care if it’s simply a world of our own making. Why do we, as
infinite beings, expend the effort, energy, and time to create and curate our local universe?


Answer:
The local universe is the sovereign, one-of-a-kind universe of a single, yet eternal moment
that is attached to a life form in spacetime. Every life form possesses its unique local
universe, and every universe is organized by the beliefs of the entity who expresses it. If we
are born into the life of a butterfly, then we believe in the ways of transformation and flight.
If we are born as an elephant, we learn to find water and food, and perpetuate our species.
As a plant we learn to connect with the earth.


Our earthly purpose as a life form is to survive and perpetuate our kind. As a human being,
our purpose, in addition to survival and perpetuation of our species, has a higher meaning.
We can be fully conscious that our world is a local universe that is an extension of us. This
means we can understand the subjectivity of our local universe and everyone else's. That
we have a hand in its creation because we are an interpreter of life experience in our local
universe.


The Interpreter is one aspect of our finite self; the other one is the Expresser. These are
“two halves of the same coin,” and that coin is Behavior. Behavior interprets our local
universe through sensory representations expressed through our internal organs and
energy centers. It expresses the beliefs of our sensory system connected to our sovereign,
human body.


So our behaviors are constructed of two primary ingredients—our Interpreter of our local
universe, and our Expresser into our local universe. On the one hand, we see an event and
we interpret it, and from that interpretation we express ourselves in imagination, thought,
feeling, and action. These four elements are always braided, we simply don’t recognize
their connections, because we tend to focus on the thought or the feeling. The imagination
and action are often subconscious interpretations and therefore the resulting behavior is,
for the most part, unacknowledged.



                              © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                         1
Our Interpreter and Expresser constitute the consciousness of the finite self. They are
allowed free will in the hands of our Infinite Self. The Infinite Self is what I refer to as the
Sovereign Integral. It is the eternal sovereign interconnected to the One and All. When it
inhabits a physical body it lives in spacetime duality as a finite, temporal self within a local
universe that serves as its “Creative Space.” Every nanometer of our local universe is part of
the Creative Space.


The difference is measured in timelines. Those parts of our local universe that are of long
wavelength, spanning hundreds, thousands, millions, billions of years, they are solidified
and they become the background of our local universe. Those things that are of
milliseconds, seconds, minutes, hours and days, those things are facile, fresh, relevant,
compelling, dynamic, unpredictable, and highly interactive. And that part of our Creative
Space is where we tend to focus.


In a way, our sovereign, finite self is a trinity of factors that arrange our awakening. The
Interpreter, Expresser, and Creative Space are the tools in the hands of our Infinite Self to
find expression in the worlds of spacetime duality. To discover itself within the murky
subworld.


What if it was flipped, and this subworld was heaven, and the higher dimensions were
actually lower dimensions. We had it wrong. What then? Is it not true that it wouldn’t
matter in a local universe that was prominently accomplished as an Interpreter and
Expresser of unconditional love? And that is the point. The moment is our single lens. The
single lens promotes examination. And examination is all that is required to understand.


Our beliefs inform our Interpreter, similar to how our Expresser informs our behavior. The
Expresser is just a name to identify the sensory organs and the complex system they
represent within the human body, but to do so in a novel way. As an Expresser, they give
form to reality. They express our local universe to ourselves first, and to others second. In
some respects, they are the creators of our local universe.


The Expresser creates the local universe, the Interpreter learns the local universe’s true
nature, and evolves its understanding across infinite, spacetime duality. The sovereign,
finite self is both Interpreter and Expresser, always seeking to understand the two truths:
What are we, and why are we here? Yet, our Expresser and Interpreter have been aligned



                               © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                             2
to the human culture of temporality and historical validation. These are the headwinds in
our journey to understanding these two truths.


We must learn how to align to the higher beliefs that beget the behaviors of unconditional
love and the intelligence therein. You see, this is one of the greatest misunderstandings
that we have of love, particularly unconditional love. We do not ascribe intelligence to love.
We think of it as a heart-filled, sentiment-rich expression. Yet, unconditional love is steeped
in one condition: The intelligence of One and All.


The intelligence that creates and sustains all levels of existence to include the finite, infinite,
and eternal; that intelligence is what we are all interconnected to. It is to that intelligence
we innately desire to align, but only when we understand the reason to align to it, will we
choose and commit to align to it. And this is the problem. We are taught to align with human
culture. With religion. With science. With our country. With our ethnicity.


We are not taught to align to unconditional love. Yes, we are given platitudes about
unconditional love and assurances that it is the highest of all behaviors. This is done
without understanding why we would choose to align to it. To adopt it as our Expresser and
Interpreter. And in that abstract understanding we align to those other factors of culture,
religion, science, country, and ethnicity. Yet in the deep recesses of our psyche we yearn to
understand unconditional love, and move it from the dark abstractions of the thinker, to
the light of an imperfect, committed practitioner.


As an interface to spacetime duality, our beliefs and behaviors are inextricably linked, and
they act to mitigate the severity of our apparent existential reality, particularly as our local
universe overlaps with other life forms and the dynamism of life pulses bright. This
dynamism is not all external, in fact, it can be mostly internal. The co-evolution of our
partnership between our finite and Infinite Self creates dynamism in our local universe
because it is from the internal that the external arises.


The idea of a local universe that is experienced and interpreted by our finite, human self,
and can be affected by our beliefs and consequent behaviors, is a philosophy unto itself.
This local universe overlaps with other local universes, as well as our consensus universe as
described by science and religion. These interactions from “outside” our local universe are
perceived to be outside our local universe, yet in reality, they comprise our local universe.




                               © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                            3
Every single life form possesses a local universe. They are infinite in number, and yet they
are interconnected. They overlap where the One Intelligence roams amongst us all. We are
a singular and collective consciousness. We are sovereign and integral. We are the thing
that organizes our local universe to be a reflection of the finite or the infinite or a blending
of partnership between the two. The philosophy of the local universe is to create a
partnership between our finite, human self and our Infinite Self, for the purpose of aligning
our local universe with the One Intelligence.


All the trappings of organized science and religion do not matter in this philosophy. It is
agnostic because it is bespoke—to one individual it is custom-fitted. It has to be. The local
universe is one-of-a-kind. It is a collection of infinite moments where every single one is
unique. It has an overarching purpose, which is to commit our existence to the further
understanding of who we are and why we are here. This is the common bond between our
local universes. Everything else resides in a group or a single entity.


The philosophy of the local universe can be summed up in the concept that we are each
evolving, in our own way, towards a partnership between our temporal, finite self and our
Infinite Self through the imperfect practice of unconditional love. This is who we are, not
just humans, all life in all spacetimes. All.


You could argue that an ant does not understand unconditional love, and perhaps you
would be right in the term of human language, but all life is interconnected by this
intelligence of the One and All, and its echo in the Sovereign and the Integral. If we are One,
then we are All. We are Sovereign and we are Integral. And if we are All, then we are One.
There is no other way.


If we understand this very basic truth, then we have entered the philosophy of the local
universe. Because this is the doorway into the infinite, sprawling enlightenment that is
unique to us and our encounter with spacetime duality. There is no other way.


There, in a few paragraphs, can be found the philosophy of the local universe.




                                © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                       4
