                              The Unwavering Connection



Question: Consciousness is one of the most vexing of all subjects. You use the term
“Infinite Self” or “Sovereign Integral,” which I think is your term for “consciousness.” Is that
true? And if it is, why do you use that term instead of soul or consciousness? And why do
you say infinite instead of eternal or immortal?


Answer:
Consciousness is defined in different ways depending on the unique beliefs of an individual
human being. If we could pluck a hundred different individuals from the globe from
unassociated geographies and cultures, place them in a room, and then ask them to write
an essay on consciousness, we would enjoy the wide and unpredictable range of
interpretations. This is the charm of consciousness. It is a variable that is uncertain. Its
definition—at best—is clouded and murky.


Consciousness is really not uncertain, rather, it is so encompassing that it cannot be
deduced or delineated by the mind. It is because of its all-encompassing nature that we
share a definition of consciousness that is constrained and diminished. We see
consciousness as part of our mind or brain, tied to the lineage of the human species, with
its genetics and body being human. We see it as an awareness of “me,” of “I”ness. Many of
us also consider consciousness as sentient, and therefore we accord our heart, feelings,
and intuition a role within consciousness. In essence, we see consciousness as a state of
mind and heart that is inside our bodies, and related to our humanness.


Thus, consciousness is of our minds, our hearts, and our human body. Yet, what if
consciousness was a species unto itself. What if consciousness were so deeply and
profoundly unique to the human experience that we defined only the part that was bound
to humanness? When indeed that part was infinitesimally small in comparison to its
original state—its Infinite Self.


The most fundamental aspect of consciousness is that we are interconnected at the level of
a species, and also at the level of the creator of that species. We are interconnected to the
Prime Creator, and by association, to all of its expressions across all species and all
spacetimes. We are that. We are sovereign and we are integral at once. If we were not, how
else would we exist? By random chance? By an infinite motion of nature unfettered by a
guiding intelligence? No, we are interconnected as fractal expressions of the Prime Creator.


                                © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                        1
And those expressions are sovereign consciousness. They are the individual perceivers,
interpreters, and expressers of the Prime Creator, inhabiting forms in spacetime duality.
That sovereign consciousness is a free will entity that is infinite. Its infinitude derives from
the logical inference that each and every life form is a facet of the One Consciousness of
the Prime Creator.


This single fact, once we believe in it, defines all of our beliefs and behaviors. It serves as
the core, the foundation, the blueprint, and architecture of our entire belief system. And
this belief system informs our behavior, which informs our belief system, which defines our
sovereign consciousness. Why?


If we are the Prime Creator in spacetime duality then all life is part of the Prime Creator. We
cannot distinguish right or wrong, or good and evil. Duality, morality, sinfulness, judgment,
are all illusory. They exist only insofar as the Prime Creator bestows free will as its act of
unconditional love to all life. We do not align with the Prime Creator in a judgment of right
or wrong; we are the localization of the Prime Creator in spacetime duality—our “local
universe.”


To truly believe that we are the localization of the Prime Creator is to believe that all life is
interconnected, because all life is the localization of the Prime Creator in spacetime duality
within a local universe. We do not see battles and conflict. We see free will and the
unconditional love that always accompanies it. We see consciousness as one thing
expressed in the multiplicity of forms, each in their local universe of infinite uniqueness.


That part of us, that is infinite and unbounded by spacetime duality, is one thing. It is the
intelligence of the collective, operating in the intelligence of the singular expression of form
in spacetime duality. Consciousness is both Sovereign and Integral, and in this state it is
infinite, and anything that is infinite is unbounded, undefinable, indeterminate, and utterly
mysterious.


Wisdom presumes there is a better way. Intelligence presumes there is an infinite way,
whose purpose evolves.


We are the intelligence that is the multiplicity of the Prime Creator, and this intelligence is
not wise, it is not perfect, it is not good, it is not wrong, it is not able to be judged or to
judge. It is the intelligence of a multiversal consciousness that is one and inclusive of all


                                © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                           2
things. Consciousness is intelligence that is infinite, multiversal, and can operate as both
sovereign and integral.


Consciousness is Prime and multiplicity, simultaneously. If we believe in this fundamental
logic: We are each a Sovereign Integral consciousness; a part of the one, many and all
consciousness; then we abandon duality in favor of understanding. Understanding
becomes the lesson of consciousness. We can refer to this understanding as unconditional
love amongst life forms who are imperfect, because we are multiplicity in duality.


This understanding is consciousness. Anything less, is unconsciousness—a mentalized and
emotionalized state of awareness.


It is not because we are sinful creatures that we are imperfect. It is because we are
imperfect by design in spacetime duality. It was the only way to create authentic learning
for the Prime Creator, and produce a consciousness that is understanding. The intelligence
of the One could only learn in the intelligence of the many if it granted free will perception,
interpretation, and expression to every life form. And so, It, We, All agreed. Everything that
exists is in agreement with the Prime Creator. How could it be otherwise? Do we believe
that the One fights with itself? Only the misinformed parts fight, and this fight is for
understanding.


Just as a bird requires two wings to fly, the Prime Creator requires multiplicity of form to
experience spacetime in all of its dimensions. We are part of that multiplicity as much as we
are part of that wholeness and oneness. If each of us are Sovereign Integral consciousness,
then why do we fight? Why do we feign misunderstanding? Why do we see differences
instead of understanding that we are one? Why do we believe and behave like we are
competitors?


We are one. We are individuals. We are both. And every single life form is the same in this
regard. Understanding this is precisely what unlocks our consciousness from the program
that dominates in spacetime duality. And that program is to place a sovereign
consciousness on the continuum of fear and love in such a way that the consciousness
actually believes it is finite and disconnected.


Spacetime duality is a relatively fearful place for an Infinite consciousness, because looming
in its presence is finiteness. The reality of our Infinite Self has dimmed into mythology or
worse yet, it is lost. We are distracted by survival and the enculturation of our species. We


                               © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                         3
are learning in a procession of moments. We are experiencing life as if it is outside of
oneness. As if we are not interconnected. As if we are isolated, driven by an unknown
agenda.


Yet nothing could be further from the logic of interconnection and collective intelligence. If
we understand consciousness as an infinite state and why it is interconnected, then we will
find spacetime duality as our tool of understanding. And everything that enters our local
universe is understood in that light.


There is so much surplus of thought and emotion that is layered upon consciousness. We
create conspiracy theories of every shape and form. We create mythologies to spark our
imaginations. We study all of the religious and spiritual ways, which precipitate learnings
that burrow into our beliefs and behaviors. All of this is surplus. The essence of
consciousness is found in the concept of the Sovereign Integral—that we are both a free
will expressionary force of the Prime Creator and the Prime Creator.


Our consciousness is both! Not eventually—once we earn it. Now! If not for the qualities of
spacetime duality, we would all understand this. And whether we are a few or a billion who
understand this, it does not matter. All we can control is one: us. Free will enables this, of
which we are all benefactors. The whole point of the “Game” is to cooperate in the
understanding that we all are a single consciousness, and this can only be done with free
will.


Thus, free will is the wind in the sails of both consciousness and unconsciousness. Free will
is the circulation of the collective consciousness of the Prime Creator. It has no direction in
which it moves. It is not attracted or repelled. It is not judged or in judgment. It is the
widest, deepest, broadest interpreter of experience in the local universe of a sovereign life
form.


That which is immortal suggests a birth without death. That which is eternal suggests no
beginning or end. That which is infinite suggests an endless evolution and expansion in
spacetime. Yet, this is only true if we grant that the Prime Creator itself is infinite, and our
consciousness is a part of that which created all from one.


If we believe there is a Prime Creator, and that creator created spacetime duality, and quite
probably is spacetime duality, then we will believe that all exists as one intelligence, bound
together through a Prime Creator. We will see a singularity of consciousness that is


                               © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                           4
invested in spacetime duality operating through a life form that is finite, temporal, and
sovereign. The question is, is the Prime Creator consciousness, and that is all there is,
regardless of the life form of individual expression, or is there an individual sovereign
consciousness that is ours forever?


The concept of the Infinite Self and the Sovereign Integral, is the same idea. Different terms
for the same thing. They are the state of consciousness that perceives its local universe
simultaneously on multiple levels. They perceive themselves as finite and infinite. Infinite
and interconnected. Interconnected and yet sovereign. Sovereign and integral within an
infinite local universe.


If we want to see something more clearly—experience it more poignantly—what do we
usually do? We peel the layers around it like an onion until we find its core. What is the
equivalent of the core of consciousness? We know consciousness is sentient. It is part mind
and heart. Emotions and logic. Intuition and imagination. Visionary and practical. All of
these are layers that surround a core that interconnects us to a singularity of
consciousness that evolves and expands infinitely.


It is that core of interconnectedness that is hidden by all of the layers of our finite selves. It
is an interesting note that the smallest unit of measure—the finite self, can eclipse the
Infinite One. In spacetime duality the finite obscures the infinite. And in this obscurement,
we doubt our interconnectedness, and the source of that oneness. This is explained in
more detail in the essay, The Prime Creator’s Paradox.


Immortality and eternalness do not suggest interconnectedness with the Prime Creator or
an endless purpose of evolution and expansion. The terms: Infinite Self and Sovereign
Integral stand for consciousness. Consciousness is one thing, and simultaneously, an
infinite multiplicity within spacetime duality. Spacetime duality extends to all densities and
dimensions. It is the ratio of fear to love that changes within the dimensions, but duality
remains, as does spacetime.


There is the dimension of the Prime Creator, and that is the One Dimension where all
dimensions of the multiplicity of sovereigns in spacetime converge in the oneness of the
Prime Creator.


Soul is an interesting term and its definition varies widely. It is often quite different in
definition from consciousness. The definition of consciousness is a more scientific,


                               © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                          5
post-enlightenment term for the mind system that holds the subconscious and conscious
ego. While the soul is more of a pre-enlightenment, metaphysical term with poetic,
heart-centered origins. It is a bonding constituent of life, while consciousness is a curiosity
of life left to the scientist and metaphysician-philosopher to knock on its door in
ponderment.


Soul is the ancient word for an individual’s spiritual essence. Its origins are not clear, but it
is thought to have proto-Germanic roots. It is that spiritual, nonmaterial essence that was
largely the domain of shamans, witches, occultists, astrologers, alchemists, gnostics, and
animists. These were all pre-enlightenment fixtures of our early civilizations in which the
soul was regarded in sharp contrast to the vagaries of the life of survival or the religious
rigors of sin, repentance, and saviorship.


Soul was the part of us that was immaterial, yet central to our survival, as it was connected
so intimately with community and nature. It was the connection of the individual to the
universe and to their tribe throughout time. Ancestors were considered to be their souls
incarnated in different spacetimes. Soul was the continuity of spacetime, and the
experiencer of the local universe, all in one.


What we call our Infinite Self does matter, because when we use words we instill meaning in
those words, imaginative vision, and the majority of that meaning and vision comes from
outside of us via schools, books, family members, friends, and religious organizations. We
interpret these meanings from outside of us, and we express these interpretations into our
local universe through behaviors. Our behavior becomes beholden to our interpretations
of our local universe, which fuel our beliefs and thus, our behaviors.


Words carry definitions that might be thousands of years old, which in itself, is not an
issue, but rather, that we believe that meaning does not evolve, when indeed it does. The
meaning of the words: soul, consciousness, mind, infinite self, sovereign integral, are
different, and if we can understand these differences they inform our beliefs and
behaviors.


For example, if we examine these various terms, and decide that there is no God. Then,
perhaps, we’re drawn to the term “consciousness,” as an interface of our temporal brain.
Won’t we naturally interpret our local universe as a material, scientifically contained world,
made up of data and the inexplicable functioning of the quantum realm? And if we did,
wouldn’t our perception be focused on the finite?


                               © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                          6
Yet, if we are drawn to the term “Infinite Self,” we might see an entirely different world in
which we are an infinitely evolving consciousness that is both sovereign and integral.
Sovereign as an individuated state of consciousness in spacetime; and integral as an
interconnected state of consciousness that is a localized perceiver, interpreter, and
expressionary extension of the Prime Creator.


Those are two very different interpretations of our local universe. Are their relative
positions better or worse? Let’s propose the following: The science of consciousness
defined in materiality is closer to fear than the perspective of the Infinite Self, which is
closer to love. Is one better or worse than the other? No. The Prime Creator, which is
ultimately what we each are, desires to experience multiplicity, not singularity. It desires to
have authentic experience in spacetime duality; thus, it grants free will.


Is this desire on the part of the Prime Creator? Or simply a willful state? Is it akin to an
emotion or more of an intellectual thought? The Prime Creator explores duality, and
through this exploration, its understanding expands through all of us—the largest, inclusive
“us.” One sovereign perspective is not better than the other when viewed as the Prime
Creator.


Do we want to view our life, our local universe, as an enlightened ego embodied in a
human being for 80 years, with all its judgments and frailties? Or do we want to view life
through the eyes of the Prime Creator? The Sovereign Integral construct suggests we can
do both. We are the frail human of temporality, and we are the Infinite Self—the sovereign
projection of the Prime Creator in spacetime duality.


We are the lens of the Prime Creator whose infinite experience fuels its evolving
intelligence within spacetime duality. If we perceive our identity as the Infinite Self, in
partnership with our finite self, aware that we are interconnected to the Prime Creator, we
are allowing the eyelid to open and stay open.


We live our life, existing as part of its intelligence and singular expression, and we
experience and express—that finite part of us—as the physical lens for the Prime Creator
to live in spacetime duality upon earth. We understand that all continuums and spectrums
are nondual, nonlinear, and nonreal in human terms, and yet, we live as a human. We do
not drop our humanity, we enliven it.



                               © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                          7
This is what enables us to understand. To live in the nondual of understanding is how the
Prime Creator consolidates its learning through us. How it generates unconditional love for
us. How it freely gives itself to all things within us. And how it re-embraces and reintegrates
all of its infinite multiplicity while allowing sovereign will, perception, interpretation, and
expression.


How can we know this inside a finite body fueled by a heart and brain that are nurtured by
a culture of survival? How can we bring these concepts of the Infinite Self and the Prime
Creator into a visceral belief that is unwavering, even in spacetime dualities that are tainted
from violence, absurdity, and seeming chaos?


Nothing in human duality is unwavering. It is always in flux of one kind or another. This is a
natural flow between states of consciousness in the domains of duality. It happens at all
levels of both consciousness and subconsciousness. All is uncertain and unpredictable and
wholly magical. Thus, wanting an unwavering belief is to expel the magical, and why would
we want to do that?


However, once these concepts take root within us, while they may fluctuate in their
appeals, they allow us to reinterpret our local universe. They allow us to see through the
eyes of the Prime Creator. And even if it's the tiniest glimmer—our interpretive powers are
forever changed. Our belief system is forever changed. Our behavior evolves in the
direction of the Sovereign Path, and once found—truly found—we never look back and
ponder why we began the journey.


We may wonder where the Master is, or the Saint that will save us, or the promised Avatar
who will reestablish heaven on earth, but the Hierarchy is the Prime Creator and Nature’s
expression. There is no distance filled with teachers that stretches between the Prime
Creator and its creation. The eyelid that opens is ours. The will to open it is ours. The will to
sustain its openness is ours. We perceive, interpret, and express as a sovereign unit of the
Prime Creator.


All of the hands that have molded us, our beliefs, they have all been, and will be, of the
Prime Creator, for there is no other domain. There is no hierarchy that intercedes between
us and our Creator. The very thought of a hierarchy suggests that there is a distance
between the creator and the created. A separation that has caused a sense of lack or loss.
There is only the sovereign and the integral. The sovereign is the individual unit that the



                               © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                            8
Prime Creator uses to explore and understand spacetime duality. The integral is the
unwavering connection we all share.


The eyelid remains open. It blinks from time to time, bringing clarity with each blink, but
our eyes see the Prime Creator in every moment, and this is the integral. And yet, as
equally important, our eyes see our Sovereign Infinite Self forever forming and
transforming in an infinite dance of mutual delivery—from the finite to the infinite. From
the sovereign to the Prime Creator. From the Prime Creator to its tiny replica in spacetime
duality. And this is our beauty. Our heritage. Our gift to ourselves: The Infinite Self and the
Prime Creator, as one plus one equals one.




                              © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                         9
