                                   The Power of Beliefs



Question:
There is so much discussion around higher purpose and our destiny that I am honestly
tired of it. Can you provide any fresh insight into this treadmill of discussion and debate?


Answer:
The concept of choice and free will are parts of duality. Their counterparts are contained in
the survival fears, lodged in our reptilian brains—fears like disempowerment, isolation,
disconnection, and purposelessness. These are the deep fears lurking around us
constantly, and paradoxically, they are well-lighted in our culture, yet, they hide in clothing
that sparkles and draws attention to itself either through popularity or intellectualism (it is
seldom both).


Thus, free will and oppressive fatalism are bound together, when in reality there is a
synthesis state where these opposites overlap and we exist simultaneously in sovereign
freedom and integral destiny. We individually have the freedom to choose our path in our
local universe, while at the same time, we understand, even if unconsciously, that our path,
as we define it, is woven into a larger destiny of which we are not in control.


This larger destiny is not written. It is experienced. Then this experience is turned into
learning. This learning is turned into a navigational system, and we, as a collective,
universal intelligence, define our way. No Sovereign decides. It is the Integral that shapes
destiny. It is the Sovereign that shapes daily life in the local universe. It is a partnership in
spacetime.


There is no destiny for the One and All who is the one being that is outside of spacetime
and dimensional existence. All dimensional existence is within spacetime, even those
rarified expressions of spacetime that are nondual. Even those dimensions have a form of
spacetime, it is simply of a different frequency, given its vibrational habitat. And all
creations are of spacetime, yet eternally connected to the One and All where spacetime is
nonexistent.


Understanding this partnership between the One and All, and the one that is us, as a
Sovereign, is a very broad definition of our destiny as Sovereigns. Yet, even the broadest
definition we can imagine, will not be sufficient to define it, because words cannot be used


                                 © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved
                                                                                                    1
to define the infinite. Images might come closer or perhaps music, but even these fall short.
And this is why the simplest premise offers hope: We express, in our behavior, as a human
being, that we are first and foremost a soul, and as such, we are part of a universal intelligence
that interconnects all existence. And that is what we align to as a human being. It is how we live.


If we align with anything else, we add tiny fractions of friction to our destiny. This friction is
what facilitates learning. It is not something to avoid; it is something we desire. Not
because we are weak creatures succumbing to our basest natures, but because we seek to
learn from conflict and duality, angst, and suffering. Collectively, we are crafting a
dreamscape to learn from, using these lessons, as a lens of One and All, to navigate and
simultaneously create our collective destiny as a planetary species.


Is there a personal destiny that applies to a single Sovereign? Yes, it is to become aware
that we are a Sovereign, and then simultaneously we are aware that we are an Integral.
And once these are part of our conscious self we can become partners, and once we
become partners we become aligned to One and All as a member of our species, and the
destiny of One and All becomes our destiny. Thus, there is Sovereign Destiny that flows into
Integral Destiny that flows into One and All.


These are difficult concepts to articulate. And perhaps harder still to understand with their
oblique definitions and subtle subjectivity. To this I will agree, but to believe a lesser vision
is really tantamount to fearing our true selves. To look at the vision and say to ourselves: “I
cannot possibly be that wide, deep and high. I cannot possibly be a part of the One and All.
I cannot possibly be interconnected to everything in existence. I cannot possibly be a hub in
a network of Sovereigns that constitutes an unbroken intelligence of unimaginable insight
and beauty.”


In this case, we would fear what we assume we cannot achieve. We would fear that what
exists in our local universe does not conform to these postulates of who we are and why
we are here. But if beliefs make our reality. If they constitute what is real in our local
universe, then this reality is internal first, before it is externally validated. It is first an
internal reality that we create, because we believe it unconditionally.


Our belief does not require validation, evidence or even faith; it requires our imagination,
firm commitment, and unconditional belief. Where we place that unconditional belief is our
choice. If we need all of our beliefs to be validated by evidence and data, then we will be
weighed down by technology. There were human beings 200,000 years ago and more, who


                                   © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved
                                                                                                      2
understood these beliefs of who we are and why we are here. There was no science or
technology as we think of it today.


There was sheer survival amidst the challenge of Nature. That was the local universe for
humanity on earth before the rise of science and technology, and yet the majority of
humanity understood they were embodied souls interconnected in a universal intelligence.
Did they use these words? No, they carried these beliefs inside themselves. They were
simply instinctual, obvious, and preternatural.


However, in today’s world, with science and technology encroaching on every aspect of our
lives, we have distractions and influences that confound us. That makes these
preternatural beliefs slip below the signal into the noise.


We don’t say to ourselves, “I will believe this vision when I see it in my local universe.”
Instead, we say to ourselves, “I will believe this vision now, because it resonates with my
deepest knowledge. If in time, I see aspects of this belief emerge in my local universe, I’ll
welcome them, but my belief is unconditional. If in time, evidence supports my belief I will
take it in. Right now, what’s important to me is that I live as a soul, interconnected with a
collective, universal intelligence, because I believe that is who I am.”


We keep it simple so that unconditional love and kindness is the result of the belief. Not the
ability to spout definitions of the cosmos or our history and lineage as a species. All of that
is deeply subjective, encompassing a fraction of what is. The fractional amount can be
enough to eclipse the sun if it were at the distance of a star. Even a tiny, fractal amount of
the whole, can obscure the vision of the whole if the distance of that vision is far enough
away.


If we can do this, we can navigate life with more grace and a greater sense of commitment
to who we are. We do this without a single thread to an organization of any kind. The
Sovereign network is not an organization. It doesn’t possess a hierarchy. It does not have
an agenda. It does not function for a purpose. It does not have a brand. It is not made up of
sub-organizations.


This is the final veil that is lifted. That we are not interconnected from religious or
philosophical perspectives or a leader within the species. Rather, we are interconnected
through something that transcends those objects of society that are designed to separate
us into organized groups. We are interconnected through the intelligence of One and All


                                 © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved
                                                                                                  3
where there is no group, leader, brand or agenda. It exists to learn and to form from this
learning a more comprehensive understanding of life.


There is us and there is One and All. Everything in our local universe exists within that. And
everything that exists is infinite and eternal. All knowledge is contained therein. All possible
actions are contained therein. Our belief, or lack thereof, in this superstructure and our
role within it, is fundamental to the reality that plays out in our local universe.


If we are not comfortable with this vision, our human self is not ready to invite the infinite
self into our human world. And this lack of comfort will inform our decision to look away
and move on. Keep searching or stay where we are. This is wisdom. This is appropriate.
This is attunement. In part, this is why you are reading or hearing these words right now to
inform your sense of attunement to our core beliefs. The ones that have never left us. The
ones that simply got obscured in human culture and collective beliefs.


We each decide if we want to awaken to our personal destiny. Usually destiny is defined as
what we do well in a single lifetime. For example, it was Thomas Edison’s destiny to invent
the light bulb. But this is not the destiny of a Sovereign. It is the destiny of a human being in
the scope of a single lifetime. We are not a single lifetime. We are not a patchwork of
lifetimes. We are infinite beings that are interconnected to One and All.


Let’s say we are wrong. Let’s say that our belief in all of this is misguided. What have we
lost? We chose to believe in the highest conception of who we are and why we are here.
Can anyone tell us a higher vision? Is the singularity a higher vision? Is heaven and hell a
higher vision? Is eternal oneness and nirvana a higher vision? Is the finality of death a
higher vision? Is faith in an unseen God a higher vision?


This is not about being right or wrong, because there is no proof until there is. And we
cannot say with certainty at what time that proof will arrive for us as an individual or for
our collective species. Thus, a vision is required, a belief made, a journey sought, and a
destiny to be understood. We select our vision and belief, and they select our journey.
What journey do we want?




                                 © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved
                                                                                                 4
