                             The Journey of Self-Discovery
                            Who We Are and Why We Are Here

Question:
There are many spiritual teachers who say it is best to not seek truth. To just let truth find
its way to us. Be in allowance and openness, and that’s enough. But how does one remodel
their belief system by being passive? It seems like it would require great effort and
discipline to change our beliefs and behaviors.


Answer:
It is an individual thing. Every life is different. Some require discipline and effort, even great
energy, to make a change in their belief system, while for others it may seem like a natural
and desirable evolution.


This is why, in part, there is no specific process or path that is appropriate for everyone.
Even if there were only two humans on Earth, their path to truth would be different. This is
why there is such diversity in knowledge. We are not the same, nor are we in the same
spacetime, even though we are all living on Earth. Our local universe is singular, unique,
one of a kind. Thus, as we awaken to our innate desire to understand who we are and why
we are here, we awaken within a moment that is utterly unique.


There’s a tendency to see similarity in behavior and beliefs. We glom them together to
make it easier to connect and have empathy with another life. Yet, if we were to compare
the life streams of two individuals who thought they were extremely similar, every single
moment that comprised their lifetime would be different. Every single aspect of their local
universe would be different.


Similarities are not the bonds between different life forms. In truth, it is the differences that
really bind us, because in those differences we see the diversity of One and All. We see how
impossibly complex One and All must be, and what kind of intelligence would be required
to orchestrate and inhabit this diversity of life. To colonize spacetime duality as an infinite
soul consciousness is not a trivial task. It is inconceivably complex. Yet, notwithstanding
that, we are part of that intelligence.


We are empowered with accessibility to that intelligence simply through our belief in its
existence and our commitment to understanding who we are and why we are here.



                               © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                         1
At that specific crossroads where spacetime meets duality in a moment of our awareness,
we can feel the nudge to expand our belief system to include those two simple yet
profound questions: Who am I and why am I here? Not in terms of a passing whimsy, but in
terms of unending commitment, because that is when the real awakening occurs.


Anything less than unending commitment is a passing whimsy, a temporal exploration that
ultimately ends in disappointment, confusion or distraction. And while a passing whimsy
seems to carry a negative judgment, it doesn’t. The passing whimsy is our system of delay
so we can explore our local universe with wider latitude, finding joy in the human
experience and understanding human culture.


The real seeking begins when we feel within us, as a sovereign individual, that we want to
become more of our Infinite Self. We want to form a partnership between our finite self
and our Infinite Self, and by doing so, we begin to answer the questions: Who are we, and
why are we here?


We are curious about how our local universe can become a higher harmony between our
finite, human self; our Infinite Self; and our interconnectedness to the intelligence of One
and All—the organism of which we are all parts. Regardless of what words we use to
describe this, whether they originate in a religion, philosophy, or a new brand of
metaphysics, we are describing the same thing. Words can formulate our beliefs. They can
add information that adds density to the definition of our beliefs. They can bring heavy,
undesirable baggage to our journey that will slow our progress.


It is important to understand that we move at the pace that is suitable for each of us. We all
unfold differently and at different rates of awakening. There is a reason for this: We have
free will, and we are exquisitely unique. We have absolute control of choice in our inner
world, and that is enough reason that an infinite number of paths lead to our
understanding of who we are and why we are here.


These infinite paths include everything. There is no exclusion. The more confused we are
about who we are and why we are here, the more our paths become tangled in the
human-constructed, collective universe. These entanglements are the headwinds of human
culture and social programming. They push our beliefs into collectivism or social groups,
when all this time, within each of us, is our Infinite Self. We have tuned our consciousness
to the realm of the finite self and the local universe therein. We have submerged our
awareness into human culture in order to survive and possibly thrive.


                              © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                         2
If we want to understand these questions and build an unwavering commitment to evolve
our understanding of them, we must face ourselves as we are. We are an infinite soul living
in a temporal body who collectively create a universe of spacetime that is perfectly suited
to our level of understanding of who we are and why we are here.


There is no judgment that can be made. We are all infinite beings. That ant, that bird, that
mouse, that whale, that tree, that raccoon; all infinite beings. If life exists, it is infinite—not
the physical form, but the energy embodied within and without the physical form. That
energy, which is of the highest frequency, is infinite. It always exists.


While the form we inhabit is temporal and subject to duality—joy and pain, birth and
death—we are not only the form of density and materiality. We exist in the multiverse of
spacetime duality as a sovereign consciousness that is forever connected to the planetary
consciousness that is forever connected to the universal consciousness that is forever
connected to the infinite One and All.


When we can set aside judgment, seeing all things as infinite, sovereign beings with their
own unique pathways of understanding who they are and why they are here, then we can
see ourselves as we are: The amalgamation of a finite and infinite being interconnected to
One and All.


Judgment is the entanglement. Judgment is simply not understanding who we are and why
we are here. It is the fundamental miscarriage of human life. We have birthed a belief in
our true self, and yet we miscarry it to the point of action. Our behaviors belie our
burgeoning understanding. We believe tepidly and behave accordingly. Judgment rules,
and we shutter our awakening. We contain it. We slow it down. We forget, again.


However, once the behavior of non-judgment and unconditional love and kindness is
rooted in our human consciousness, and it is practiced “imperfectly,” we evolve our
understanding. We find our understanding not because of curiosity and effort, but because
of behavior and belief.


You could argue that our behavior and beliefs are a result of our curiosity and effort, and I
will concede that it is, but it is also not true for all. We behave what we believe. We can hold
these beliefs inside us. They do not have to be made explicit or expressed physically. They



                                © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                           3
can be internal. Once they are held internally, they will begin to grow out of us organically
and evolve into new behaviors that become our second nature.


We live in a consensus reality. Even our spouse or family can be a consensus reality, let
alone the culture at large. If we try to practice non-judgment and unconditional love at all
times and under all circumstances, we might find ourselves inadequate, and we would
question our resolve, purpose, value, and so on. We can practice our understanding
internally, allowing it to evolve within us. And we become our first proof of concept.


That is to say, our internal understanding and practice are directed to us. We practice on
ourselves, internally, and no one needs to know. No one needs to approve. No one needs
to participate. From there, we let it seep into our local universe to the best of our abilities,
knowing and acknowledging that we are perfectly unique, and as such, there is no process
to follow, there is no benchmark or standard to achieve.


In the final light, the only truth we seek is to understand who we are and why we are here.
Once we understand this in our own unique way, the behavior of unconditional love—the
empowerment that we are Infinite Beings interconnected to one another and to the creator
of us all—is possible for any of us. Isn’t that the truth we seek to understand, and the
behavior we seek to receive and transmit within our local universe?




                               © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                         4
