                                  The Role of the Heart



Question:
The heart plays a central role in your writings, especially those pertaining to what you have
termed the Six Heart Virtues. Can you explain why the heart is so important, and does its
importance make the mind or brain less central to our enlightenment?


Answer:
The heart has always been important in the works of spirituality. Before there were schools
of any kind or a formal educational system, there was the heart. It was the observer of life
through the lens of intuition or the sixth sense. This was often more evolved and developed
in those who were tasked with being a spiritual leader within their community, but it was
acknowledged that all people had this connection. It was an innate gift from our creator,
and this gift enabled us to perceive our choices based on dependency and interconnection,
instead of choices based on selfish greed or desire.


Intuition was prized by all communities. It became, over time, suppressed by the priests
and those charged with organizing spirituality for the purpose of centralizing power over
people. These became our religious centers, and intuition was targeted because it enabled
everyone to have an instant connection to their creator. To see truth through their hearts,
because their heart was the portal to the higher mind and ultimately the Infinite Self
within—the Sovereign Integral.


Thus, the heart was the human gateway to the Sovereign Integral. It was like an
intermediary or a focused lens that enabled anyone to connect with the universal
intelligence beyond their own, while at the same time, understanding they were a part of
this intelligence. The religious centers made these beliefs into heretical practices, as if they
possessed some kind of demon. They were stamped out like a fire, and in those smoldering
ruins, the heart was given a back seat to become an emotional rollercoaster tormented by
sin and morality—the hand of religion.


The heart has been repositioned away from an interconnected gateway to our Infinite Self
to an emotional network pinned to human morality. It is up to each of us to unpin the
heart, reposition it as a gateway to our Infinite Self. And in doing so, transmit the behaviors
of unconditional love and kindness.



                              © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                         1
This is and has always been the role of our hearts. It is the vast program of religion and
culture to teach us that the heart is a trivial playground of emotions, sentimentality, and
gushing romance. These are not of the heart of which I speak. The heart and higher mind
are synchronous partners who can open the door to the Sovereign Integral; they can make
the invitation clear and present. They are the path away from outside control to inside
alignment to the One and All.


When we approach the invitation of our Infinite Self to join our human reality in spacetime,
we are always, at the outset, within our heart. The heart is the inception point for the
invitation to the Sovereign Integral consciousness to become a part of us without outside
influence of any kind. It is a deeply private and personal invitation without a single atom of
fanfare, glamor, or self-interest. There is no organizational structure or code of morality.


There is us and there is our Infinite Self, and this Infinite Self is sovereign—an
individualized, infinite consciousness that is interconnected to the universal intelligence
that is One and All. And this interconnection is absolute, unconditional, and infinite. Our
hearts are the starting point of this journey to become independent vehicles to our Infinite
Self, not by becoming something grand, but by a simple decoupling from outside
influences, and a private invitation from our heart and higher mind.


The invitation itself is not a flurry of words inscribed by a mantra-maker or an ancient script
that has proven to work; rather, it is behaviors of unconditional love and kindness. These
can only flow from the heart. In these behaviors is the invitation. It is the behavior of the
heart and higher mind that enable us to make the invitation clear and present to our
Infinite Self.


It is not words. It is a feeling, but not the kind of feeling that is mushy and tingling. It is the
feeling of clarity, commitment, and resoluteness that we have found the way inward and
we are ready for the conscious integration between our finite selves and our Infinite Self.
To demonstrate this readiness. It is not about prayers, affirmations, meditations, and
techniques; it is about the behavior of unconditional love and kindness, as it has always
been.


This behavior requires a heart that has been repositioned, not as an emotional
rollercoaster, but as a gateway to our interconnection with the universal intelligence of One
and All. This repositioning is required in order to bring the behaviors that beckon the
Infinite Self to merge with our finite selves. It is as if we demonstrate our belief, and our


                                © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                           2
Infinite Self observes and feels welcome and safe to perpetuate the flow of unconditional
love and kindness.


Now, does this mean we are easy to roll over? We will forever be under the boot of the
powers that be? No. The heart is resolute. It possesses clarity. If there is undue influence
upon one’s local universe, we will resist, and that resistance includes the Infinite Self whose
presence is more visceral in our reality. And by visceral, I’m suggesting that it’s felt by
others. It’s understood subconsciously that we have that resoluteness. It is not the long
view of strategy that enables unconditional love. It is the infinite view.


This view begins in the heart, and this is why the heart is so vitally important—it can hold
the infinite view. Unfortunately, it is also why the heart has been undermined by religion,
philosophy, metaphysics, and science. Organizations can only exist when the heart is
repositioned as the fingers that pluck the strings of emotions, ethics, and morality, because
then a quagmire exists, and these organizations offer their help to extract us from the
quagmire.


Our hearts are the temple we were born into. It was our first home in this new world. We
arrive at this place—our hearts—and we depart from this place. In between arrival and
departure is our life, and during this life we can learn to use this heart—our home—not as
a pumping device for blood, or an emotional ride between a crest and trough, but rather,
as a gateway to our private, inner journey to One and All.


Our heart is the start to One and All. It has always been. It is what makes us distinctly
human from our very first advent upon earth. Enlightenment is an interesting term in itself.
It is often conjoined with awakening, another interesting term, because both of these
words suggest we are ignorant and asleep—a state of irrelevant passivity subject to control
by outside forces.


The human brain or mind is usually the thing presumed to be ignorant and asleep, if not
the total human being itself. The brain is the lens into our three-dimensional reality. The
heart is the lens into four-dimensional reality. Imagination is the lens into higher
dimensional realities. The Infinite Self is the lens into all realities. In a way, the only thing
that needs to be enlightened or awakened, is the idea that our heart and mind can invite
our Infinite Self into our reality through behaviors of unconditional love and kindness.




                                © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                             3
It is that idea that causes enlightenment, sufficient to awaken us to our dependence on
outside authorities, so we can become independently interconnected. This is a paradox,
but nonetheless it’s an important understanding in order to envision the Sovereign Integral
consciousness.


The importance of the heart does not in any way diminish the importance of the mind.
They are truly inseparable, overlapping in function and design. The old adage of two sides
of the same coin applies to the heart and mind. In this analog, the same coin is the
embodied soul. The soul, Infinite Self, or Sovereign Integral is embodied within the
heart-mind complex. It is not embodied in the physical body. It is held within the heart and
mind complex, whose circuitry is not contained or quantified in spacetime as a single unit.
Rather, it is all.


The heart-mind complex is like a vehicle for the soul, in the same way as the physical body
is a vehicle for the heart and mind. The heart and mind only require a simple idea to
unleash the soul and bring it into our local universe through our behaviors. And in doing
this, in starting here—not a religious ceremony, ethical prayer, or spiritual meditation—but
a simple idea enacted, we can become who we are while living in a human body with all of
our individuality intact and honored.


And this is the thing about unconditional love and kindness; it has to begin with ourselves.
The invitation to our Infinite Self cleanses our heart-mind complex of its presumed guilt,
moral ineptitude, and insecurity. Our practice of unconditional love and kindness begins
there, where we begin to see ourselves not as a floundering, enslaved human being who
has done great wrongs, but as an Infinite being, living and learning in finiteness, yet
interconnected with all. At any moment we can remember this, and when we do, the
unconditional is possible for us, and then, from us to all.




                              © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                        4
