                                  The Gradual Unveiling:
            Extraterrestrials, Interdimensionals, and Human Evolution



Question:
There’s so much chatter about the disclosure that Earth has been and is presently being
visited by extraterrestrials and/or interdimensionals, and that they played a prominent role
in human evolution—particularly our technology. Everyone says this information is being
disclosed in slow motion, but it almost seems more likely it will never be disclosed, and
we’ll be left in doubt and suspicion. Why is this being done?


Answer:
The reason behind this slow disclosure across generations of humankind is twofold: 1)
There are those who know the reality, enjoy the intrigue, and desire to keep it all under
wraps. It’s their private theater. 2) The rational, yet outdated assumption that if it were
disclosed more quickly, it would destabilize governments, religions, educational systems,
and thus, economies and cultures would suffer irreparable losses.


There are other reasons, but these are the main ones. The people in the know are bridges.
That is how they see themselves. They are first responders to the clarion call that humanity
is but a strand in the braids of embodied, sovereign, sentient, higher intelligence. These
higher intelligences are curious, but none more so than the first explorers to find Earth
when it was still in early formation.


Earth was foreseen by its creator, the one that embodied within a planet. In order to
produce such a planet as Earth, it requires a creator of great skill, empowerment, curiosity,
wisdom, and sheer intelligence that none of us in our human form can even imagine. All we
can know is that we are a part of that creator and that this creator is a part of another scale
of creation, and this fractal reality goes on well past infinity, as we think of it.


Extraterrestrials and interdimensionals are all part of that creation. The creator of Earth
was not a geological phenomenon. If we could go backwards, into the unknowable history,
where planets and stars were incepted by a singular intelligence that constituted the
multiverse of dimensional life, we would see it bearing a new dimension of physicality that
was so dense it was separate from all other dimensions.




                                © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                       1
All other dimensions were like the projected dreams of this singular intelligence, and the
idea of a planet like Earth was born. It was at the inception point of our universe, and it
evolved biologically, with the ability to create genetics, and these genetics were the prized
gems of physical life. These genetics were given to the original race of beings in our
universe—we can call them the Central Race.


These were, to humanity, our first extraterrestrials, but they were also our creators. Our
particular species, as we know it today, is the outgrowth of that genetic line. Genetics,
within spacetime, are always in a state of change. Sometimes the change can be towards
unification and love, and sometimes the change can be towards hate and division. In a
duality-based, free-will universe, it is always both.


Genetics have a vision. They are always evolving towards something. This something can be
behavioral coherence with the soul or Infinite Self, or it can be technological
superiority—when our genetics merge with synthetics. The vision of genetics is to diversify
and survive. The vision of human genetics is to develop a physical body, heart-mind system,
and imaginative, higher mind that can support the vision of an embodied soul within a
planetary realm that is based entirely on free will and duality. One part moves toward
behavioral coherence, and the other toward synthetic intelligence within synthetic bodies.


These two fundamental paths could be defined as Behavioral and Synthetic. The first is
based on the alignment of imagination, thought, feeling, and the behavior of hands, legs,
and mouth, making all of these partners with the Infinite Self. The second is based on the
use of artificial intelligence that is designed by humans, and then itself, in a recursive
cycling at the speed of light, ultimately usurps the genetic code and reconfigures it for its
own purpose.


Now, with that backstory, the belief that extraterrestrials or even interdimensional beings
are outside of our planet is false. They are part of the planetary consciousness that we are
all a part of, whether we acknowledge it or not. This means that there are those of similar
intelligence whose genetic code has been “synthetically evolved” by artificial intelligence,
and there are those whose genetics have been organically evolved by behavioral coherence
(or lack thereof).


And naturally, there will be those that are a mixture of both.




                               © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                          2
A race does not become an explorer race for lack of curiosity and the intelligence to satisfy
that level of curiosity. Intelligence of this kind takes many trajectories. It can become
technologically advanced. It can become spiritually advanced. It can become mentally
advanced. It is always a mixture. It is the ratio that matters.


Each galaxy has an integral story that is being told to its inhabitants. The story’s arc is
infinite within the galaxy and outside the galaxy to include the broader universe and
ultimately the infinitely dimensional multiverse. We are part of a whole that we cannot
comprehend within our humanity. This is how it was meant to be.


If an explorer race is mentally developed with sophisticated technologies, they could lack
spiritual development. And to be clear, when I use the term “spiritual,” I’m not suggesting
religion. Simply that the race is aware of the interconnectedness of life and its sacred value.
That understanding may be wrapped inside a religious belief system very different from
our own, or it may not have any organizational ownership.


The point is that these races visit Earth—not outside of Earth, but within its sphere of
influence and reality-making machinery. They are as much a part of Earth as we are. Earth
is the consciousness of which we—all of us—are a part, and through Earth, we are a part of
all dimensional realities because we have nested our individuality, as infinite beings, inside
a planetary consciousness. We are it, and it is us.


The consciousness of Earth has always been a platform for individuality within a free will,
duality-based, life-giving, spacetime ecosphere that is exploring a universe of its making.
The planetary consciousness is reaching out to the universe. It is not humanity or any other
affiliated consciousness.


It is the planet itself that is our exploratory platform. It travels through spacetime as an
aggregate of life forms, and this consciousness that is all of us, is what we have always
called God, yet we have anthropomorphized this planetary consciousness to fit our
conceptions of what God is like. It must be like a human father or mother, it must care
about us enough to send messengers and messiahs. It must be all-powerful, and the wisest
of us know how to appeal to it.


And so we have created God, when indeed, we are part of the consciousness that is the
planet itself, and that planetary consciousness is part of a consciousness that is galactic in
nature. And that is part of a consciousness that is universal in nature, which is a part of a


                               © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                          3
consciousness that is multidimensional in nature. And that is part of a consciousness that is
unknowable for a human consciousness to understand, but it goes on and on.


Thus, to understand extraterrestrial or interdimensional, we must understand that we are
that. The thing that is outside of us seems separate from us, yet the thing that we are—that
we all are—is a single planetary consciousness that is unified in the infinite spectrum of
realities. And we have been granted the privilege to experience spacetime through a
planetary lens of which we are all a part.


Our individuality is indestructible and infinite. Yet, it is not the individuality of a human, it is
the individuality of a planet. The planet is our platform. Our stage to experience spacetime
duality with free will. If in some distant future, humanity is able to travel to other planets or
meet beings on Earth who have traveled from other planets, it is Earth consciousness that
has made this possible. And all of that experience is an earthly experience. It is part of
Earth’s reality.


Thus, the planetary consciousness of Earth is the compilation of the genetics of all its life
forms, whether those life forms are from Earth or another planet that Earth expands to,
and this aggregate of genetics constitutes the reality-making machinery of Earth, which in
turn is the stage where we unspool our local universe, across dimensions, and express our
individuality.


Thus, in a way, there are no extraterrestrials or interdimensionals, because they are part of
our planetary consciousness just as we are. The planetary consciousness is creating the
universe in the same way that each of us creates our local universe. The universe is a
projection of Earth. The solar masses are the energetic centers of the planetary
consciousnesses that are far-flung in our universe. And upon each of these planetary
systems rests a genetic library. And within this library, there are species through which that
planetary consciousness can experience spacetime reality.


You could think of it as if the universe was a bloodstream and the cells inside that
bloodstream are the galaxies and planetary consciousness therein. The larger body is
unseen. We know only of the blood vessels and arteries. The heart, brain, body, and mind
of the greater multiverse, and the consciousness therein, are not even contemplated. The
scope of creation is infinite, and we are an infinite being within it.




                                © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                          4
Ultimately, our decision will be to align to the path of behavioral coherence because that is
where knowledge leads. When we discover who and what we are, we align to that
understanding steadfastly, and it is not a moment of enlightenment or satori, it is a glimpse
of who we are. It is always a glimpse that is evolving in depth and breadth. There is no end
to our understanding or finality of comprehension. It evolves and unfurls in the spectrum
of time.


The key understanding is that we are all planetary beings at one level conjoined from one
genetic library as members of a species living on a planet called Earth, powered by a star to
travel a universe and explore spacetime duality with free will. And we are simultaneously
infinite beings who explore planetary consciousness. We are both of these. When we
realize this, and we realize that we are interconnected as a result, we understand that
behavioral coherence is our natural state.


No matter what prevails in the form of technology, it will not prevail over behavioral
coherence because that is what free will engenders. We get to choose. We decide, one
human being at a time. It is always an internal choice at an individual level. We choose to
be who we are as our Infinite Self in every moment, unconditionally. And we do this to the
best of our abilities in each moment that we exist.


It is our infinite behavior that guides us.




                               © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                        5
