                                    The Nature of Love



Question:
We’re always taught that love is all you need, that it’s the most important thing. That it
makes the world go round. And yet, everywhere one looks, there is a decided lack of love. If
it’s not missing entirely, it’s at least hiding somewhere waiting to be found. Why?


Answer:
Love comes in many flavors, as do all emotions, including fear, hope, passion, and
resilience. There are degrees and qualities that differentiate one hope or fear from
another. Love is connected to fear. That is to say, in the absence of fear, there can be love;
in the absence of love, there can be fear.


In the realms of duality, we can say with some degree of assertiveness that there is only
one continuum: Love and fear. Everything else, every single emotion and feeling can be
placed somewhere on that continuum. The Six Heart Virtues are all on the polarity of love,
and the vicious cycles of anger, frustration, hate, bigotry, hopelessness, all of these can be
placed on the polarity of fear.


Where we place our beliefs and behaviors, we place our attention upon the continuum of
love and fear. Fear originates from many different places: our experience, our envisioned
future experience, our ancestry (DNA), our education, our beliefs. These are all places from
which fear enters our local universe.


When fear enters, love enters; and when love enters, fear enters. They are interconnected.
One cannot go where the other does not follow. The difference is in the ratio of love to fear.
Even in the highest vibratory realms, there is fear if there is love, however, its ratio of love
to fear is so high that fear cannot be felt or measured.


The nature of love is to include fear. From the highest is the lowest, and from the lowest is
the highest. This is an ancient belief that fear (the lowest) is of the highest (love), and of
course, the inverse is true as well. Fear is often the result of the perception that our local
universe is happening to us, instead of from us. How we define “us” is vitally important.


If we define ourselves as a finite, temporal human being, in a world of apparent chaos and
fatalism, then we are prone to believe that our local universe is not affected by our creation


                               © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                           1
or guidance. If we define “us” as an Infinite Self interconnected with the One and All, then
we are prone to believe that our local universe responds to our guidance because we flow
with the One and All. We are its extension in spacetime duality. We are the lens through
which it experiences spacetime duality at all levels of existence—including the plant, animal
and human.


Thus, the finite world is where fear is made explicit, and the infinite realms are where love
roams free and lives in dominance of fear. We can define “us” as to whether we are finite or
infinite. We can also believe we are both infinite and finite, and that these two parts of our
identity can be partners braided into one consciousness, and this one consciousness is
fueled by love.


Once we decide we are both infinite and finite, in partnership, we can then decide that we
are intentionally activating the higher continuum of love. We see it as an ongoing choice
that our partnership chooses to interpret and express our local universe as love, instead of
fear. We choose this, and we are mindful of the choice.


The nature of love is that we choose it. We choose it to interpret our local universe as if
love—though imperfectly expressed to our mind’s eye—is informing our local universe. It is
flowing into our lives moment to moment, and that passage of moments never ends even
when the finite body does. That is the nature of love. It always exists. It always follows us
into the moment like a shadow follows an object, even in darkness.


To believe only in the finite is to believe in limitation. Why would we do that? Why would we
choose to believe that after our finite, temporal body dies, we are, as a state of
consciousness, dead, too? That we are our body and nothing more? We answer these
questions every time we lean into fear. Every time we reach out to it, and invite it into our
imagination, thoughts, feelings, and behavior.


Every time we do this, we are also reaching out to love. As suggested before, love and fear
are different ends of the same continuum. We could look at it like this, that love exists in all
local universes of all forms of life in all spacetime dualities. It is omnipresent. However,
love, when it is expressed in vibratory densities that are physical in nature, becomes mixed
with fear, because these densities are seemingly unresponsive to us.


This seeming unresponsiveness redefines our consciousness as one of finiteness and the
solving of survival. We forget our infinite empowerment with One and All. We become


                              © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                           2
disconnected in the lower dimensions of our finite consciousness with the higher
dimensions of our infinite consciousness. These two parts separate, and respectfully drift
apart, across innumerable lifetimes of existence.


As Infinite Beings we have learned one fundamental premise above all others, and that is
that love is the essence of who we are, and by identifying with the highest form of love that
we can imagine, fear has a smaller place in our local universe. Fear will always exist in our
local universe because it is a vibration of love, it is not something to eliminate. It is
something to honor mindfully, and then to shift to a higher vibration of its existence, even
if that shift is subtle. If it is mindful, it is not meaningless.


Our consciousness perceives love like the beads of an abacus. We can move the bead to
the left and define our perception as fear, or we can move the bead to the right and
interpret life moments as love. Where we choose to position the “bead” of the abacus,
molds our local universe. If we perceive no love, only fear, our local universe can oblige us.
This then becomes the vicious cycle that tempts us, and if we’re not careful and judicious,
we can fall into the temptation.


This is not about sin. It is simply a logical extension of where we place the bead on the
abacus in relation to love and fear. If we become acclimated to the polarity of fear, we will
find our local universe to reflect these fears over love. Our finite self can become
acclimated to fear. Our Infinite Self cannot, and yet it observes itself in the finite local
universe, as one that can and does.


This very fact is what creates our anxiety and general state of fear. These emotions can lurk
in the background of our local universe, coloring our world with fearful emotions and
mental fog. Again, all of this is love, it is just the chemistry of how spacetime duality and our
finite consciousness intermix. It creates this baseline local universe that we inherit through
our ancestral DNA. This is why there is no such thing as sin—original or not.


There are social rules and principles, and if they are broken, we are held to punishment.
But this is not a sin. It is a criminal act. The definition of sin is that our punishment is meted
out by God and a higher law therein. That judgment is not a human jury or judge, but
rather God himself, his Holy Spirit or his divine messengers.


Love comes to us in so many ways, and from every possible angle, in every possible
frequency or vibration. If we find ourselves in a fearful local universe, then we can shift


                                 © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                       3
gradually away from it. It is not a magical thing where a wand or mantra is required. It is a
choice that is consistently followed.


What is that choice? We choose to believe that we are both a finite and infinite being. That
the world in which we live is a reflection of the partnership between those two selves. That
the finite and infinite partnership can choose to shift to higher interpretations and
expressions of love, independent of what we see in our local universe. Is that not the
definition of unconditional love?


I have written many times that unconditional love is imperfectly expressed and interpreted.
In an infinite multiverse of existence in which we all live, there is no absolute or perfection.
There is only a vibratory elevation that we can bring into our local universe. It will be
imperfect, but if it is done with a conscious sense of partnership within ourselves, and it is
done to elevate the One and All, then it is a form of unconditional love.


On the continuum of fear and love, unconditional love is the polarity of love and, as one
would surmise, conditional fear is the opposite pole. One exists for the other. In a free will
universe, we choose where we put the bead on the continuum. This choice is always
internal. It echoes across all of our behaviors, forming our beliefs, and taking us by the
hand to the world we have made. We want to realize this.


This is when the nature of love unveils itself in an infinite multiverse within our imagination.
This is the adventure we are all having—in our case—as human beings in the 21st century
on earth. Other life forms are doing the same thing, in their own way. We all live within our
local universe, which intersect and overlap with others. In these areas of overlap, we can
interpret them as the actions of another Infinite Self, reaching into our local universe,
suggesting to us where we should place the bead on the abacus, hoping our hand moves
the bead in the direction of imperfect, unconditional love.


That is the nature of love.




                              © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                         4
