                                   The Sovereign Path



Question:
There are hundreds if not thousands of different paths an individual like me can take. I
grew up in Christianity and then as an adult studied Buddhism, and then, in my twenties, I
converted to the Eastern way. But still, I have this Christian belief system that seems to be
installed in my psyche and it’s hard to remove or displace it. What do you suggest as a way
to meld different paths so I feel less conflicted, guilty, and confused?


Answer:
There is only one path because all paths eventually converge to one. In the external view of
our local universe there appears to be an endless array of different belief systems. And
they all provide a potential access route to the one path. However, the one path is always
internal. It is found within our local universe by understanding that there is only one way to
find the truths we care about: Who am I, and why am I here?


That one way is our way. It is not the way prescribed by another. It is our way, in whatever
way that happens to be in our local universe. If we feel fulfillment and an evolving
understanding of who we are and why we are here, then we are on the right path—even if
we feel conflicted, guilty or confused. It is our path, and therefore, it is the path we have
chosen to believe in.


Our beliefs beget our behaviors that beget our beliefs. This is the cycle we live within. This
is why it is important to align our beliefs and consequent behaviors to the pursuit of these
two questions—who are we, and why are we here? And never, ever be satisfied that we
know the answers completely. The answers expand and evolve with our exploration as a
life form in spacetime duality. The levels of understanding are endless.


How do we know when we understand the one path and we’ve found its headwaters—the
place from which we begin our journey upon the one path to become a Sovereign Integral
in spacetime duality? How do we know that we are ready to form a conscious partnership
between our finite and Infinite Self? How do we know we are ready to become a committed
(yet imperfect) practitioner of unconditional love? These answers are never quite the same
for any of us. Each of us walks a completely unique and individual path of realization.




                              © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                           1
We find our way within our local universe, mostly unaware that we are creating our local
universe with our beliefs and behaviors, and the degree to which we believe in the
partnership of our finite and Infinite Self. This foundational understanding emerges when
we’re ready to integrate it into our existing beliefs and behaviors, allowing them to
rearrange our local universe. In effect, we choose to place ourselves at the headwaters and
commit to the journey ahead. These headwaters are one river and there are no tributaries
that feed into it beyond its headwaters.


All who come to the one path, travel the one path into infinitude thereafter. The current
only goes one way. The current flows to the places where we gain a deeper understanding
of who we are, and why we exist within spacetime duality. We learn that we are the one,
many and all consciousness. We learn that we are a Sovereign Integral—a soul unified and
individualized simultaneously—a natural result of our covenant with our Creator.


The one path only flows in the direction of our Creator. However, as a human, we perceive
setbacks or headwinds or frustrations that feel for all the world that we are moving
backwards or sideways. Yet the river flows one way, hence its name: the one path. When
we enter it, we will immediately feel the current. It is magnetic. If we don’t feel this, perhaps
we are not as ready as we had believed to make the commitment everlasting.


Truth has a way of whispering. It is subtle, and in this subtlety there are entire worlds of
being, living, understanding, expressing, creating, and so on. Truth is not a philosophical or
knowledge-based system. Truth is a belief system based on the imperfect practice of
unconditional love. If this distillation of truth feels like it lacks science or religion, then you
are correct. It does. It decidedly does, and it makes no apologies for their absence.


Science is invaluable to evolve our understanding of the physical universe, but within our
local universe there are infinite levels of consciousness and interactions with spacetime
duality—the physical dimension is but one. Science does not possess a means to probe or
understand these other worlds. It has no mechanism, mathematics or instrumentation to
prove these infinite dimensions exist or to prove that our consciousness exists in those
dimensions at all times.


If it were possible to decompartmentalize human consciousness, that is, show its existence
across dimensions, we would see an incomprehensibly complex identity, who, at its highest
levels, is infinite and interconnected with One and All. At its lowest levels it is embodied in



                                © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                           2
spacetime duality as a temporal, finite body, separate from One and All. Yet, these two
identities are conjoined like roots of a tree.


Science and religion can lead us to the headwaters of the one path, but when we enter the
river of the one path we can leave them at the shore. The one path is not about proving
these other worlds and dimensions to another being. This would be the only role that
science and religion could offer anyone on the one path: to “prove” we are infinite. We’re
always moving to the next understanding of who we are and why we are here. Through this
deepening of our understanding we adjust our behaviors ever so slightly, to more precisely
align to the One and All, and to harmonize our finite and Infinite Self.


Thus, we arrive at the headwaters through a perfectly unique and individual path, but once
we enter the waters of the one path, we allow its current to pull us. We have become part
of the one path itself. We’re no longer wandering in the desert or searching and yearning
for the way home. We are a living embellishment of the one path, and in this, we sense only
camaraderie with all living creatures. We understand that those same creatures, if they are
not yet part of the one path, it is by their choice.


And this may sound implausible, because one can argue, quite convincingly, that the
headwaters of the one path are extremely hard to find, but that is only because we have
been taught that it is. It is not. It has no requirements or prerequisites of learning. It is an
internal choice that is made an infinite number of times across our moments of spacetime
duality. It is a choice to get into the river and allow its current to pull us, guide us, and
center us as we flow down the waters of the one path.


Imagine a thousand tributaries converging to one river. The current would increase at the
point of convergence. It would be roiling and turbulent there, yet those are the headwaters
of the one path. In that turbulence we find difficulty, because we are centered on the
external. We are watching the turbulence. We don’t see the calm river downstream. We
don’t see the muddy waters give way to the clear waters of the one river downstream.


The path to, and the journey upon, is all one path. It is called the Sovereign Path, meaning
each path is singular and wholly unique. If you think of it, every moment of spacetime for
every single life form is unique. Not one moment in the infinitude of spacetime is exactly
the same. Each life form is constructing its local universe, and therefore every path is
unique. It is this uniqueness that provides the One and All with the deepest insights that
feed its intelligence.


                               © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                             3
This intelligence is precisely what is shared with us as we travel the one path. And this
intelligence enters us, and expresses itself through our various levels of consciousness, in
its own way. It is always unique. It is a feeling, a thought, a voice, a song, a poem, a
movement, an expression, an imaginative understanding that is our unique experience and
expression of the intelligence of One and All.


For most of us, it seems we are imperfect recipients of this intelligence, and next to the task
of survival and cultural immersion, it may even seem insignificant and irrelevant. Accessing
this intelligence and learning to be a partner of it, cannot be saddled with judgment or
critical thought. It is a choice, as I have said so many times. The outcome of that choice
cannot be criticized or judged as imperfect, insignificant or irrelevant.


There is only a choice. Once the choice is made, the path is settled. However, the choice
must be our own. It cannot be influenced by another. It is a sovereign choice of free will.


It is the nature of free will to reveal the one path. We are privileged to be recipients of the
one path. Thus, we can choose to exercise our free will wisely, and appreciate our
Sovereign Path, deepening our individuality for the sake of One and All.


We each possess a background of spiritual beliefs as a result of our DNA, lineage, culture,
and education. We have these beliefs that we bring to the headwaters, and we decide if we
can leave them at the shore or we bring them with us as we enter the one path. It’s easier
to integrate our background of spiritual beliefs with the one path if we understand the
Sovereign Path—the full arc of our education as to who we are and why we are here.


We can see these earlier belief systems as benchmarks of our evolving understanding. They
define our progress. They demonstrate that we are being pulled by the current of the one
path. As we move down the one path, our Sovereign Path becomes more illuminated. We
see how its purpose was intricately planned. How event strings led us to find the words, the
frequencies, the vibrations that would somehow synchronize with us in a moment of time.


And in that Sovereign Path there was never a wasted moment. Never a time when we were
wrong in our choices of what to believe. Everything led us to the one path where we could
let go and follow the current. Where we could make different choices of what to believe, yet
not look back with disapproving eyes at the individuality of our path. Rather, we can



                               © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                        4
embrace it all, grateful for our collective experience that led us by some magical fate that
was not fateful at all. It was a commission of choices.


Chief among them is the choice to always seek the one, internal, unique, and individual
path that leads to One and All. And during this infinite journey, believe in the imperfect
nature of unconditional love, absent a single judgment or expectation. This belief is both an
interpretation and an expression.


Why is it imperfect, unconditional love? Because we live in a free will multiverse that is both
finite and infinite. Spanning one-dimension to an infinite number of dimensions. Its
vastness is incomprehensible, and yet we each own a point of “real estate” called the:
Moment in the life of a human being.


This moment is where we practice our craft of love, hate, fear, joy, and all of the thoughts
and emotions that constitute our human state of being. This moment could be looked
upon as a sphere with an infinite number of levels. The moment in the life of a human
being is contained almost exclusively in the lowest levels of that sphere—the physical,
emotional, and mental levels. That’s what we are conscious of. It’s what we allow into our
sensory system as real.


Unconditional love is imperfect, not because it is broken or poorly designed, but because
sovereign individuals with free will create infinite local universes, and there can be no form
of comparison in infinite systems. Thus, everything is subjective. There is never a finish line
or a point of perfection. We practice unconditional love, knowing it is not perfect, and
therefore, neither are we perfect in our interpretation and expression.


By virtue of its definition, love without judgment or expectation is unconditional. It can be
conjoined to sentimental love or the love of attachment, but it remains what it
is—unconditional and imperfect. The more important quality of unconditional love is its
intelligence. It is intelligent about the true nature of who we are and why we are here. And
once this intelligence is exercised and allowed to roam free within us, the Sovereign Path
becomes clear.




                              © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                          5
