                             The Wisdom of Incarnation:
                               Navigating the Multiverse and Our Mission




Question:
Why is our mission—at a general level—misunderstood, lost, or appropriated by those in
power?


Answer:
We overcome whatever holds us back from understanding our missions. This is why those
of us who have incarnated upon this planet are considered among the wisest of
Sovereigns, because the separation frequency of this planet and our species is strong. Very
strong. It is challenging to remember one’s mission, and how to form alignment with the
One and All consciousness that is so central to that mission.


As learning platforms are concerned, earth is one of the finest in all worlds and
dimensions. And each of us is privileged to be here as a lens of the One and All.


The arena of our reality is very large with quite literally infinite perspectives, and in each of
those is a truth-telling perspective of how the universe operates. The universe does not
operate as a singular reflection of one physics, and this is because it is not a universe, it is a
multiverse. Even within the multiverse, there are multiverses. If you have studied the
many-worlds interpretation, you understand that it is quite possible and even likely that we
live in an infinite-verse. And in this domain, physics is not a singular thing. It is an infinite
thing.


Therefore, what one can say about how spacetime operates, is applicable to one world, but
not another. This is why I put less emphasis on physics (operational truths) than I do on
behavioral intelligence. The intellect desires to understand how things work and why things
work. It is only natural to want to know. However, if we live in an infinite realm as infinite
beings, our alignment to One and All, our belief system’s alignment is what creates
behavioral intelligence, not our understanding of how the universe’s structure is made and
operates.


This is to say that one could be the first to understand the theory of everything for one
galactic system, and yet behave like an egotistical child. Similarly, one could completely be
ignorant of the theory of everything and behave like a wise sage. The former might believe


                                © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                             1
that their theory of everything applies to the universe, however, every galaxy is a different
learning school. Every galaxy has its own theory of everything. Do we really believe that the
universe in its vastness is a monoculture of physics?


The view of free will is to cast simulations and dreams that are malleable. That can be
created, not simply discovered. In creation, variation exists. And this is the difference
between the physics of life and inanimate existence. Life is created from the Sovereign
Integral level of existence, and by the time it is stepped down to a species in spacetime
duality, life is unpredictable and free will is why.


Free will is the currency of the realm for One and All because it provides authentic learning
for the One and All. It is its “oxygen.” If One and All decided it would be better to not have
free will within spacetime duality, learning would cease to be authentic. And so, we have
diversity in all things. This diversity is infinite, and in this diversity, physics cannot be one
thing.


We have a detective’s mind as it pertains to the physics of spacetime, and a metaphysician’s
eye as it pertains to the nondual realms. I am not trying to describe the cosmos. This I
believe is impossible to describe. It operates in the unknowable state, which is to say, no
incarnational aspect of One and All can describe One and All. Once we are incarnated, we
lose our perspective of the infinite.


Whatever we can describe as an aspect of the infinite, it is not the infinite. Thus, to spend
our time and energy on trying to describe the cosmological structure of our infinite
existence is like describing a mile of shoreline of Africa, and concluding that Antarctica
must be the same. I know this seems like throwing water on a fire, and I am not trying to
dampen anyone’s excitement in deepening your understanding of structural spacetime. To
deepen your understanding, especially if it feels like a passion within you, then you are wise
to explore it.


However, whatever you land on as a belief, do not become too attached to it, unless it is
the fundamental belief that we exist in order to live aligned to One and All, which is our
most fundamental expression of love. Love is not expressed in understanding the structure
of One and All, rather, it is living in alignment to One and All through our will, our beliefs,
our expressions, and our creations.




                                © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                             2
The structure is simply too vast and varied, and always expanding, to pin it down and
define it with words and symbols. And we are okay with that. We are at peace with the
limitations of our mortal self. We are compassionate with the horizons beyond our view.
These only strengthen our resolve to live in alignment because we are not distracted by the
exploration of the unknowable.




                             © 2024, James Mahu, All Rights Reserved                      3
