Wingmakers
TM

First Source Transmissions 

First Source is all of us. It is the Collective Us. It is not a God living in some distant 
pocket of the universe. 

Project Camelot Interview with James, p. 5. 

Introduction to the First Source Transmissions 
The  First  Source  Transmissions  are  captivating,  inspiring,  and  potentially  consciousness  expanding.  
There are three transmissions: 

1. My Central Message 
2. My Central Purpose 
3. My Central Revelation 

Each  of  these  transmissions  offers  a  brief  glimpse  into  the  Mind  and  Heart  of  First Source. Their 
messages  offer  a  renewed  vision  of  the  nature  of  God,  the  multiverse,  its  ultimate  purpose,  and  our  
place in this grand scheme. 

Excerpt from the Collected Works of the WingMakers Vol. 1 (Commentary by John Berges). 

My Central Message                                  Wingmakers
TM

My Central Message 

I  convey  this  message  to  you  whom  I  have  stirred  with  the  sound  of  my  voice.  These  words  are  my  
signature. You may bring your doubt, your fear, your faith, or your courage; it matters not, for you will 
be touched by the rhythm of my voice. It moves through you like a beam of light that sweeps—if only 
for a moment—the darkness aside.  
I dwell in a frequency of light in which finite beings cannot uncover me. If you search for me, you 
will fail. I am not found or discovered. I am only realized in oneness, unity, and wholeness. It is the very 
same oneness that you feel when you are interconnected with all of life, for I am this and this alone. I 
am all of life. If you must search for me, then practice the feeling of wholeness and unity.  
In  my  deepest  light  I  created  you  from  my  desire  to  understand  my  universe.  You  are  my  
emissaries.  You  are  free  to  journey  the  universe  of  universes  as  particles  from  my  infinite  womb  with  
destinies  that  you  alone  will  write.  I  do  not  prescribe  your  journey  or  your  journey’s  aim.  I  only  
accompany you. I do not pull you this way or that, nor do I punish you when you stray from my heart. 
This I do as an outcome of my belief in you.  
You  are  the  heirs  of  my  light,  which  gave  you  form.  It  is  my  voice  that  awakened  you  to  
individuality, but it will be your will that awakens you to our unity. It is your desire to know me as your 
self  that  brings  you  to  my  presence  so  perfectly  hidden  from  your  world.  I  am  behind  everything  that  
you see, hear, touch, taste, smell, feel, and believe.  
I  live  for  your  discovery  of  me.  It  is  the  highest  expression  of  my  love  for  you,  and  while  you  
search  for  my  shadows  in  the  stories  of  your  world,  I,  the  indelible,  invisible  light,  grow  increasingly  
visible.  Imagine  the  furthest  point  in  space—beneath  a  black  portal,  cast  in  some  distant  galaxy,  and  
then  multiply  this  distance  by  the  highest  numeric  value  you  know.  Congratulations,  you  have  
measured an atom of my body.  
Do you realize how I am unfathomable? I am not what you can know, or see, or understand. I am 
outside  comprehension.  My  vastness  makes  me  invisible  and  unavoidable.  There  is  nowhere  you  can  
be without me. My absence does not exist. It is this very nature that makes me unique. I am First Cause 
and Last Effect connected in an undivided chain.  
There is no supplication that stirs me. No prayer that invites me further into your world unless it 
is attended with the feeling of unity and wholeness. There is no temple or sacred object that touches 
me. They do not, nor have they ever brought you closer to my outstretched hand. My presence in your 
world is unalterable for I am the sanctuary of both the cosmos and the one soul inside you.  
I could awaken each of you in this very moment to our unity, but there is a larger design—a more 
comprehensive  vision—that  places  you  in  the  boundaries  of  time  and  the  spatial  dimensions  of  
separateness.  This  design  requires  a  progression  into  my  wholeness  that  reacquaints  you  with  our  
unity  through  the  experience  of  separation.  Your  awakening,  while  slow  and  sometimes  painful,  is  
assured, and this you must trust above all else.  
I  am  the  ancestral  father  of  all  creation.  I  am  a  personality  that  lives  inside  each  of  you  as  a  
vibration  that  emanates  from  all  parts  of  your  existence.  I  reside  in  this  dimension  as  your  beacon.  If 
you follow this vibration, if you place it at the core of your journey, you will contact my personality that 
lives beneath the particles of your existence.  
I  am  not  to  be  feared  or  held  in  indifference.  My  presence  is  immediate,  tangible,  and  real.  You 

My Central Message                                  Wingmakers
TM

are  now  in  my  presence.  Hear  my  words.  You  are  in  my  presence.  You  are  within  me  more  than  I  am  
within you. You are the veneer of my mind and heart, and yet you think yourself the product of an ape. 
You are so much more than you realize.  
Our  union  was,  is,  and  will  be  forevermore.  You  are  my  blessed  offspring  with  whom  I  am  
intricately  connected  in  means  that  you  cannot  understand  and  therefore  appreciate.  You  must  
suspend  your  belief  and  disbelief  in  what  you  cannot  sense,  in  exchange  for  your  knowing  that  I  am  
real  and  live  within  you.  This  is  my  central  message  to  all  my  offspring.  Hear  it  well,  for  in  it  you  may  
find the place in which I dwell.  

Excerpt  from  Chamber  Twenty-three—One  of  three  written  elements  from  the  body  of  work  known  as  the  WingMakers,  
ascribed to First Source. 

                                    Wingmakers
TM

My Central Purpose 

The  blueprint  of  exploration  has  an  overarching  intention;  you  are  not  the  recipients  of  divine  labor  
and  meticulous  training  only  to  ensure  that  you  may  enjoy  endless  bliss  and  eternal  ease.  There  is  a  
purpose  of  transcendent  service  concealed  beyond  the  horizon  of  the  present  universe  age.  If  I  
designed  you  to  take  you  on  an  eternal  excursion  into  nirvana,  I  certainly  would  not  construct  your  
entire  universe  into  one  vast  and  intricate  training  school,  requisition  a  substantial  branch  of my 
creation as teachers and instructors, and then spend ages upon ages piloting you, one by one, through 
this  enormous  universe  school  of  experiential  learning.  The  furtherance  of  the  system  of  human  
progression  is  cultivated  by  my  will  for  the  explicit  purpose  to  merge  the  human  species  with  other  
species from different universes.  
As it is my nature to be seven-fold, there are seven universes that comprise my body. Within each 
of these, a species of a particular DNA template is cast forth and is nurtured by Source Intelligence to 
explore  its  material  universe.  Each  of  these  species  is  sent  forth  from  the  Central  Race  into  the  
universe  that  was  created  to  unveil  its  potential  and  seed  vision.  Your  species  will  converge  with  six  
other  species  in  a  distant  future  that  will  reunite  my  body  as  the  living  extension  of  known  creation.  
While  this  may  seem  so  distant  as  to  have  no  relevance  to  your  time,  it  is  vital  for  you  to  understand  
the  scope  of  your  purpose.  You  can  think  of  these  seven  species  as  the  limbs  of  my  body  rejoined  to  
enable me/us total functionality within the grand universe. This is my purpose and therefore your own 
as well.  
Your freewill is not taken from you; it is merely united with my/our own. In the deepest chamber 
of my existence issues the will to expand, explore, unite, synthesize, and in so doing, reveal yet another 
layer of my/our purpose. What is this purpose you ask? It is not expressible in a language that you can 
now  understand,  but  it  is  related  to  the  concepts  of  universe  discovery  and  self-evolution.  It  is  the  
expansion and synthesis of cosmic experience.  
The  ascendant  beings  of  time  are  converging  to  my  central  abode.  All  are  drawn  to  me  for  the  
purpose of my/our will to be expressed throughout the grand universe in order to cast another grand 
universe,  and  to  deepen  the  skin  of  my/our  personality.  This  is  the  hidden  purpose  of  my/our  will:  to  
create new worlds of experience that stimulate our continuing evolution. 
Without you I am unable to evolve. Without me, you are unable to exist. This is our eternal bond. 
It  was  and  is  my  desire  to  evolve  that  gave  you  existence.  We,  collectively,  are  the  conjoint  vessel  of  
creation and exploration. We are the boldness of the uncharted journey and the imaginative energy of 
the  out-picturing of  new  realities.  We  are  the  image  of  an  ascending,  infinite,  expanding  spiral  that  is  
created  segment  by  segment  by  itself.  We  are  inseparable—each  the  window  of  the  other.  My  
blessings to you who find these words and listen in the clearness of your personality.  

Excerpt from Chamber Twenty-Two—One of three written elements from the body of work known as the WingMakers, 
ascribed to First Source. 

                                Wingmakers
TM

My Central Revelation 

You  evolve  inwards,  ever  in  the  direction  of  my  creator  soul.  This  is  the  province  of  myself  that  does  
not indwell you, but indeed is separate from you as the stars are isolated from a deep cave. This place 
is  the  source  and  destiny  of  your  existence,  and  from  it,  you  descend  into  the  cave  of  your  animal-
origins where my voice falls silent to your choices.  
My plan for your ascendance embraces every creature in all dimensions of all worlds. I do this by 
divesting myself of every function that is possible for another of my creation to carry out. That which I 
create is given the power to perform my role, thus I am hidden from your view because you have come 
to believe that I am that which I have created.  
I  am  First  Source,  and  your  knowing  of  me  is  a  thousand  times  removed.  I  dwell  in  the  Central  
Universe so distant from you as to make space an unfathomable abstraction, and yet, a fragment of my 
self  is  set  within  your  personality  like  a  diamond  upon  a  ring,  and  it  will  endure  as  certainly  as  I  will  
endure. While there are those who believe I am a myth, I express to you that my world is the beacon of 
all  personalities  in  all  times,  and  whether  you  believe  in  me  or  not,  you  are  unerringly  drawn  to  the  
source from whence you were created.  
I  would  prefer  to  be  known  to  you  at  all  times  and  places,  but  if  I  did  this  then  the  evolutionary  
journey  of  my  creation  would  break  down,  and  the  teacher-student  ordering  of  my  system  of  
ascendancy  would  falter.  I  have  cast  myself  into  numberless  orders  of  beings  that  collectively 
constitute the evolutionary bridge of your ascendancy into my realm. There is no step of your journey 
that another has not already taken on behalf of those who follow. 
I  have  formed  these  words  with  the  help  of  my  inmost  creation,  known  to  you,  through  these 
teachings,  as  the  Central  Race.  Their  record  is  placed  upon  your  planet  to  catalyze—within  those  of  
your kind who are ready—an awakening of me as I truly am. This record will last for many generations, 
sometimes hidden from view, sometimes abstracted into symbols, sometimes collected into doubt, but 
always it will be my voice revealed upon your planet.  
While it is not the first time I have spoken to your planet’s people, it is the first time I have spoken 
through  my  inmost  creation  and  left  an  indelible,  multi-dimensional  record.  On  the  surface  of  this  
record is a mythology of the Central Race, but if you find my voice within this mythology, you will see 
another  facet  to  this  record,  of  a  personal  inflection,  that  speaks  directly  to  you,  my  child.  It  is  this  
intimacy that I have encoded into this record that is symbolic of my hand reaching for yours, and it is 
this intimacy that will persist within your mind and heart when all else fails you.  
My voice will help you reconnect with me. It will enlarge your vision of my domain, purpose, and 
my  unyielding  love  for  each  of  my  creation,  no  matter  where  or  how  you  live.  When  I  have  spoken  
before to your planet, it was through a prism of personalities that bent my voice and colored its tone. 
My  mind’s  voice  will  not  travel  to  your  world  unless  it  is  transmitted  through  my  creation  and  
translated  into  word-symbols  your  mind  can  grasp.  My  heart’s  voice  penetrates  all  worlds  without  
translation as a sub-photonic light and inter-dimensional vibration that produces sound.  
I  am  revealed  to  you  in  hopes  that  you  will  reveal  to  others  what  you  have  found  in  me.  

My Central Revelation                        Wingmakers
TM

Not by sanctimonious words, but rather, by redefining our relationship and living in accordance with this 
new clarity. In so doing you will release what I have long ago stored within you—a fragment of myself, a 
dagger of light that renders your self-importance a decisive death. 
Truly, this is my central revelation. I am here, beneath this mythology, to awaken your animal self 
to our relationship so you may slay your vanity. This is the distortion between us. It is not space or time 
that separates us and diminishes our conscious relationship. It is your desire to excel within the cave of 
your existence and derive gratification from this and this alone.  
I will leave to others to define the psychological wisdom and common sense behaviors of success. 
My  words  penetrate  elsewhere;  to  a  place  within  you  that  is  susceptible,  innocent,  faithful,  and  ever 
listening for a tonal hint of my presence. When it is found, this part of you—like an instrument entrained 
by a powerful resonance—will vibrate in accordance to my voice.  
All  of  your  religions  teach  the  worship  of  a  deity  and  a  doctrine  of  human  salvation.  It  is  the  
underlying  kinship  of  your  planet’s  religions.  However,  I  am  not  the  deity  that  your  worship  falls  upon,  
nor am I the creator of your doctrines of human salvation. Worship of me in coin or moral consideration 
is unnecessary. Simply express your authentic feelings of appreciation to my inmost presence within you 
and others, and you broadcast your worship unfailingly into my realm.  
This  is  the  feeling  that  you  should  seek  to  preserve  in  the  face  of  life’s  distractions.  This  is  the  
revelation of my heart to your heart. Live in clarity. Live in purpose. Live in the knowledge that you are in 
me and I am in you, and that there is no place separate from our heart.  

Excerpt  from  Chamber  Twenty-Three—One  of  three  written  elements  from  the  body  of  work  known  as  the  WingMakers,  
ascribed to First Source.